# 2.1 Overview

(SoC) functions; and is a guide for writing, understanding, and modifying code that controls those functions. It contains functional descriptions of how the Orin hardware works, and also describes the registers and related programming interfaces. Not all the units in Orin are described in detail here; as some, like the GPU, are only intended to be used with NVIDIA supplied drivers. This document is intended to provide deep technical detail where appropriate, users should first refer to the datasheets and other published information for an overview of Orin.
- Refer to the datasheet for supported features and speeds. This document may describe
hardware features and functionality not currently supported on specific Orin product SKUs, and may describe clock speeds or data rates that cannot be achieved on all SKUs. Refer to the appropriate Orin product data sheet as this is the primary authority for supported features, functionality, and operating speeds of a particular product SKU.
- Refer to software documentation for supported features. This document may describe
hardware features not supported by NVIDIA software. Description of a hardware capability in this document does not imply software support for that function. Refer to the appropriate BSP or software release notes for detailed information about currently supported software functionality.

- Getting Started
**Figure 2.1 Orin Series SoC Block Diagram**
### 2.1.1 Reading Register Tables
Every register table has an address line followed by a table containing the bit descriptions for that register. The address line contains:
- Offset: the address of the register within the specific module. Refer to the system memory
map for the start address of the module; apply the offset at the top of the table to get the register address. Read/Write: the register access type. If a register table contains the R/W column, individual bits within the register will have different R/W properties. If there is no R/W column, all bits in that register have the same R/W property. Values are RO (read only), R/W (read/write), WO (write only, and RWC (read/write to clear). Parity Protection: per register parity diagnostic in hardware implemented by safety critical IPs. The parity diagnostic detects random faults in the register fields. ‘Y’ indicates that the field is continuously checked by the parity diagnostic of the register. Single bit flips in the register, if not intended, are reported as a fault. ‘N’ indicates that the field is not checked by the parity diagnostic of the register.
- If all fields of the register have Parity Protection column as 'N', the register does not
implement any hardware based parity diagnostic.

- Getting Started
Reset: gives the power-on reset value in 32-bit binary. A value of x implies that the register bit has an undefined value at reset. A hexadecimal value is listed for convenience, where appropriate. Default: only displayed when the default setting is different from the Reset value. Unspecified bits may not appear in tables (see example below). Unspecified bits should be written with their Reset values, while reads return an unknown value.

- Getting Started

- Getting Started
### 2.1.2 Units
This TRM follows the IEEE and NIST conventions for multiplying prefixes. Among other things, this convention uses an 'i' to indicate the binary convention, and its absence to indicate decimal. So, 1 KiB is 210 or 1,024 bytes, and 1 KB is 103 or 1,000 bytes. Similarly it uses:
- Mi for 220 and M for 106
- Gi for 230 and G for 109
- Ti for 240 and T for 1012
### 2.1.3 Glossary
This glossary is intended to cover the acronyms used in this document; along with some others related to the Arm SoC world. Many other acronyms in this document are in broad engineering use and are not documented here.
- Term
- Definition
32K or 32k 32,768 Hz oscillator clock. Any references to 32k, 32 kHz, 32 KHz, or 32K in the context of this clock should always be interpreted as referring to a frequency of 32,768 Hz. 444/422/420 Pixel storage formats. 444 refers to formats where there are equal amounts of information for all three elements, 422 and 420 refer to formats where the color difference information is stored at half-resolution in either one direction or both.
- ADAS
Advanced Driving Assistance System.
- ADSP
Audio DSP. Refers to the Cortex-A9 processor in the APE.
- ADX
Audio Demultiplexer. Part of the Audio Hub used to demultiplex multiple audio streams.
- AMBA
Advanced Microcontroller Bus Architecture. A set of standard buses defined by ARM.
- AMX
Audio Multiplexer. Part of the Audio Hub used to multiplex multiple audio streams together.
- AO or AON
Always-On power domain. This part of the chip is always powered on, even in the deepest sleep state, except complete processor shutdown. See also SPE.
- AON I/O rails
- Inputs/Outputs in VDDIO_SYS, VDDIO_AO, and VDDIO_AO_HV serving the AON cluster logic
- AONPG
- Always-On Non-Power Gated. Used to indicate when an AO partition has no power gating
implemented.
- AOPG
Always-On Power Gated. Used to indicate whether an AO partition has power gating implemented.
- AOPM
- Always-On Cluster Power Management Module. Power management module implements/manages
the Cortex-R5 power state transitions. AOPM manages power state transitions for the SPE Cortex- R5 and its subsystem.
- AOTAG
Always-On Thermal Alarm Generator.

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- AOVC
Always-On Voltage Controller.
- AP
Applications Processor. Refers to the Orin device, means the same as SoC.
- APB
AMBA Peripheral Bus. Arm defined simple 32-bit single master bus for peripheral devices.
- APE
Audio Processing Engine.
- Aperture
A named region of address space.
- APS
Auxiliary processor subsystem. Refers to an implementation boundary that is shared across Cortex- R5 clusters on the chip.
- ARM
Arm is a company provides the CPU architectural specification for Orin. Arm is also Architecture Reference Manual, as in (the second Arm of) ARM ARM, which defines the CPU architecture.
- AST
Address Space Translator. A subunit associated with some of the embedded Arm cores that does address translation from local addresses to system addresses along with appending some AXI attributes.
- AUTOSAR
- Automotive Open System Architecture
(an OS used in automotives)
- AXI
AMBA Advanced eXtensible Interface. A more advanced bus than AHB defined as part of AMBA 3 by ARM.
- AVIC
Arm PL192 Vectored Interrupt Controller. Used as the Cortex-R5 interrupt controller for all the Cortex-R5 processors (SPE, SCE, and BPMP).
- Bayer
A type of image sampling pattern invented by Dr. Bryce E. Bayer of Eastman Kodak. The pattern consists of quads of pixels with two green samples, one red sample, and one blue sample.
- BCT
Boot Configuration Table. Stored on external boot device, contains config parameters for boot decisions.
- BIT
Boot Information Table. Maintained internally by Boot ROM in RAM for boot path/error tracking and logging.
- BKV
Best Known Value. Configurations determined by system characterization.
- BOM
Bottom of Memory. Refers to the lowest address in an address map.
- BPMP
Boot and Power Management Processor.
- BPMP-FW
- BPMP Firmware. This refers to the power management firmware that would be executed on BPMP
(post-boot). This is also stored in external boot media.
- BR
Boot ROM. Power-on start boot code. Stored/burnt in chip IROM, executes from BPMP.
- Brick
Input/output interface block with analog and other special functions.
- CAR
Clock and Reset module. Controls clocks and resets to the various parts of Orin.
- CBB
Control Backbone.
- CCPLEX
CPU complex (i.e., CPU subsystem).
- CDE
Color Decompression Engine.

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- CEC
Consumer Electronics Control. A part of the HDMI interface specification used for sending device control commands, often from a remote control.
- CID
Client ID.
- CIL
Control and Interface Logic.
- Cold boot
The SoC partition power transitions from OFF to ON with no previous state available. Software must construct all states from scratch. Boot ROM is executed. DRAM is brought on-line.
- CoT
Chain of trust. A security term used to denote any code that is trusted because it is loaded securely from the root of trust (Boot ROM).
- CP
Color Parser. C-PHY A MIPI standard physical layer that can carry CSI data. Clocks are transmitted along with data; data lanes are three wires.
- CPU
CPU generally refers to the main CPUs unless specified otherwise.
- CRC
Cyclic Redundancy Check.
- CSI
MIPI Camera Serial Interface. A standard high-speed serial interface for connecting cameras to Orin.
- CUDA
Compute Unified Device Architecture.
- CVC
Central Voltage Controller.
- CV Cluster
Computer Vision Cluster. A partition in Orin that includes NVDLA, PVA, and CVNAS.
- CVNAS
Computer Vision NoC and SRAM.
- CVNOC
A subblock within CVNAS–the NoC portion of CVNAS.
- CVSRAM
A subblock within CVNAS–the memory storage portion of CVNAS.
- CZ
Controlled-output impedance MPIO pads.
- DBC
Dead Battery Charging.
- DBP
Dead Battery Provisions.
- DBB
Data Back-Bone.
- DCLS
Dual Core Lock Step, a technique used for functional safety where two processing cores receive the same inputs, and the outputs are compared to detect errors. Usually one of the cores is delayed with respect to the other.
- DDA
Digital Differential Analyzer. A technique commonly used in graphics for interpolation of variables over an interval between start and end point, and also applied to other problems.
- DDIC
- Display Driver Integrated Circuit
- Deep Sleep
See SC7.
- DFD
- Design for Debug
- DFS
- Dynamic Frequency Scaling

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- DFT
- Design for Test
dGPU or DGPU Discrete GPU. Refers to an attached GPU that is external to the Orin SoC, as opposed to the internal GPU.
- DLA
- Deep Learning Accelerator
- DLS
- Delayed Lock-Step
- DMIC
Digital microphone interface. Supports direct attach of PDM microphones.
- DPD
Deep Power Down. A mode in which the pad can tolerate VDD_CORE being turned off. D-PHY A MIPI standard physical layer that can carry CSI data. Clocks are transmitted separately from data; data lanes are two wires and clock lanes are two wires.
- DRCM
Debug Recovery Mode (also known as RCM-exit-to-JTAG).
- DSI
MIPI Display Serial Interface. A standard high-speed serial interface for connecting displays to Orin.
- DVC
Dynamic Voltage Controller block.
- DVFS
Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling.
- EAVB
Ethernet Audio Video Bridging. Includes extension of the Ethernet standard supporting real-time streaming; more recently referred to as Time-Sensitive Networking.
- EC
- Error Collator
- ECC
Error Correction Code. eDP Embedded DisplayPort™.
- EMC
External Memory Controller. A block that interfaces with external DDR/LPDDR devices.
- EOF
End of Frame. Refers to the last non-cropped long packet in a frame, or to an ISP EOF packet.
- EVP
Exception Vector Pointer.
- FA
Failure Analysis.
- FCM
Full Custom Macro.
- FE
Frame End. Refers to the NVCSI short packet.
- FIQ
Fast Interrupt Request.
- FMEA
Failure Mode and Effects Analysis.
- FMON
Frequency Monitoring logic.
- FS
Frame Start. Refers to the NVCSI short packet.
- FSI
- Functional Safety Island
- FSM
Finite State Machine. This is a hardware engineering phrase used to describe a hardware block that controls the operation of some logic function.

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- GIC
Generic Interrupt Controller. Normally used to describe an Arm supplied interrupt controller used for a specific set of processors.
- GPIO
General Purpose Input/Output. An I/O signal uncommitted to a specific role and controlled by software.
- GTE
- Generic Timestamping Engine
- HDMI
High-Definition Multimedia Interface. A digital connection carrying video and audio at high speed over a single connector.
- HDR
High Dynamic Range. Usually a reference to cameras or displays using a higher dynamic range for pixel values.
- HSIO
High-Speed I/O Interfaces. See the corresponding chapter of this TRM for more details.
- HSM
Hardware Safety Manager.
- HV
- Hypervisor
- HVC
Hardware Vmin Control. The hardware initiated flow to enter/exit the Vmin state on VDD_CPU. Now referred to as CC3.
- ICG
- Internal Clock Gate
iGPU or IGPU Internal GPU. Refers to the GPU within the Orin SoC.
- IRAM
Internal RAM used by the boot process until DRAM is configured; now deprecated, and replaced by TCMs and SysRAM.
- IROM
Internal chip ROM which contains the Boot ROM code and data.
- IPI
Inter-Processor Interrupt.
- IPT
Inverse Perspective Transform.
- IRQ
Interrupt Request.
- ISP
Image Signal Processor. A hardware engine that is part of the camera processing pipeline.
- ISR
- Interrupt Service Routine
- JTAG
Joint Test Action Group Standard for Test Access Port and Boundary Scan Architecture. A serial bus used to external devices used for debug and testing.
- KMD
Kernel mode driver.
- LDC
- Lens Distortion Correction
- LIC
"Legacy" interrupt controller, a central interrupt controller in Orin.
- LP1
Low Power 1 state. Devices are power-gated, SoC clock domains are set to the minimum frequency (12 MHz and 38.4 MHz), the flow controller is configured to monitor "LP1 exit wake events," DRAM is put in self-refresh, and the VDD_CPU rail is powered off. Also known as the Suspend state.
- LSIO
- Low-Speed I/O
- LV
Low-voltage MPIO pads.

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- MB1 and MB2
Microboot stages 1 and 2, stored on external boot media. Refer to the Boot chapter for more details.
- MC
Memory Controller. Handles requests from internal clients and arbitrates among them to allocate memory bandwidth. Also referred to as MSS.
- MCA
- Machine Check Architecture
- MCCIF or MC-
- CIF
Memory Controller Client Interface. The standard interface block between the memory controller subsystem fabric and the client device. Note that some modules may have multiple client interfaces.
- MDMM
Multi-drop multi-merge.
- MIPI
The Mobile Industry Processor Interface. An industry alliance promoting a number of standard interfaces for mobile devices.
- MMIO
Memory-Mapped I/O (transactions).
- MODS
Modular Diagnostic Software. It is a powerful software program that allows users to test the NVIDIA hardware. MODS is used for three primary purposes–chip and board functional validation, chip and board failure analysis and debug, and architectural verification.
- MPCORE
Multiprocessor CPU core. A generic term for a CPU capable of operating as part of an SMP group. M-PHY or MPHY MIPI M-PHY. An embedded-clock serial-interface technology with high bandwidth capabilities.
- MPIO
Multi-purpose Input/Output.
- MSI
Message Signaled Interrupt.
- MSS
Memory Subsystem. Refer to the corresponding chapter.
- MTS
An alternate name for the Carmel CPU Microcode generated by Dynamic Code Optimization.
- NOC
- Network On Chip (referring to the backbone architecture of the SoC)
- NVDEC
NVIDIA Video Decoder engine.
- NVENC
NVIDIA Video Encoder engine.
- NVJPG
NVIDIA JPEG engine.
- NVM
Non-Volatile memory. Data retained even after power is turned off. All boot media have non-volatile memory storage.
- OD
Open Drain MPIO pads.
- OGL
- Open Graphics Library (also known as OpenGL). An API supported on Orin and accelerated in
hardware by dedicated 3D and 2D engines.
- PA
Physical Address.
- Partition
A physical sub-region of the Orin device. Power gating is usually applied at the partition level.
- PCIe
Peripheral Component Interconnect Express. A high-speed interface for connecting to external devices.
- PG
- Power Gating; Power Gate-able

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- PMIC
Power Management Integrated Control (synonymous with PMU).
- PMC
Power Management Controller. Controls the various power management features in the system.
- PMIC
Power management IC. Off-die module that controls various voltage regulators, provides the 32 kHz (32.768 kHz) clock source and provides the main system reset to the SoC.
- POR
Power On Reset.
- PPC
Pixels Per Clock.
- PPI
Private Peripheral Interrupt within an Arm processor core.
- PWFM
Pulse Width Frequency Modulation. Generates programmed pulse widths typically used to control backlight in display panels.
- PVA
Programmable Vision Accelerator. Custom computer vision DSP, Orin has two of them.
- PVT
Process, Voltage, and Temperature.
- R5
Cortex-R5 is a mid-range ARMv7 CPU cluster used for multiple engines in the SoC.
- RAZ
Read As Zero.
- RCE
Real-time Camera-control Engine. See the corresponding chapter.
- RCM
Recovery Mode. Used for re-flashing the external boot device image.
- RGB
Name given to pixels with red, green, and blue color components. This is the pixel format typically found in most display technologies because each color component corresponds to the colors of the filters or phosphors used in the display device.
- RISC
Reduced Instruction Set Computer. The CPU architecture used by Arm CPUs.
- RMMI
Reference M-PHY Module Interface. R/O Read only.
- RTC
- Real Time Clock (as in VDD_RTC)
R/W Read write.
- SATA
Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (ATA).
- SC7
Low power 0 state in which DRAM is put in self-refresh. The system state is saved in the PMC and in DRAM. VDD_CORE and VDD_CPU rails are powered off, and PMC is configured to monitor "LP0 wake events" that trigger LP0 exit. Also known as Deep-Sleep state.
- SCE
Safety Cluster Engine. See the corresponding chapter.
- SCF
System Coherency Fabric.
- SCR
Security Control Register.
- SE
Security Engine. Used for hardware acceleration of authentication and decryption steps.
- SGI
Software Generated Interrupt.

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- SDMMC
SD and MMC Controller. An I/O controller supporting both the SD/SDIO interface standards and the eMMC standard.
- SFIO
- Special Function Input/Output
- SLCG
Second Level Clock Gating. A hardware technique to reduce power.
- SLINK
Serial Link. A legacy and now obsolete name for the SPI controller.
- SM
- Security Master
- SMMU
System Memory Management Unit. Block within the memory controller used to map from a virtual address space to physical addresses for device DMA.
- SMP
Symmetric Multi-Processing.
- SNIC
System Network InterConnect. Used to refer to the control fabric in SoC.
- SoC
System on a Chip. An integrated circuit containing a CPU, memory controller and the peripheral devices needed for a computing system.
- SOF
Start of Frame. Used to refer to the first non-cropped long packet in a frame, or to an ISP SOF packet.
- SOR
Serial Output Resource. SOR is GPU IP for driving HDMI/DP/LVDS. It converts the output of the display to a more modern high-speed serial protocol. DSI is not included since it's not GPU IP based. S/PDIF Sony/Philips Digital Interconnect Format.
- SPE
Sensor Processing Engine. See the Always-On Cluster chapter.
- SPI
(a) Serial Peripheral Interface Bus. A synchronous serial data link, that operates in full-duplex mode. (b) A Shared Peripheral Interrupt within an Arm core.
- ST
Standard MPIO pads.
- Sub-aperture
An aperture whose address space is a subset of another aperture and whose accessibility is also a subset of another aperture.
- SysRAM
Name for the shared on-chip memory.
- TBSA
Trusted Base System Architecture (an Arm specification).
- TCM
Tightly Coupled Memory. This refers to internal local RAM that is associated with some of the Arm CPU Cores. These are used as local, low-latency scratch pad memory.
- Tegra
- The name formerly used to describe the NVIDIA family of SoCs, and now used only in certain
applications. References to Tegra that still exist in this TRM, such as Tegra Host or Tegra pixel formats, may be considered to apply to all the NVIDIA family of SoCs, up to and including Orin.
- THI
Host Interface.
- TNR
Temporal Noise Reduction.
- TOM
Top of Memory. Refers to the highest address in an address map.
- TOS
Trusted OS.

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- TS
- TimeStamp
- TSC
Timestamp System Counter.
- TSEC
- Security co-processor. An embedded security processor used mainly to manage the HDCP
encryption and keys on the HDMI link.
- TSOSC
Ring oscillator based thermal sensors.
- TZ
TrustZone® is a secure operating environment of the Arm CPU architecture and the related secure parts of the SoC backbone and devices.
- TZRAM
TrustZone secured RAM on the SoC.
- UFS
Universal Flash Storage.
- UFSHC
UFS Host Controller.
- Uncore
The CPU related logic outside of the CPU processing core itself.
- UniPro
MIPI Unified Protocol, a link layer communication protocol. U-PHY or UPHY Universal PHY, and NVIDIA reference to a multi-mode Serializer-Deserializer (SerDes) with analog pads for high-speed signaling to support various protocols.
- VA
Virtual address.
- VDD_CORE
SoC power rail.
- VDD_CPU
CPU power rail.
- VDD_RTC
Always-On power rail. vGPIO Virtual General-Purpose Input/Output. vGIC
- Virtualization capable Generic Interrupt Controller
- VI
Video Input. The acronym used to describe the Orin block used for camera and related pixel input functions.
- VIC
(a) Video Image Compositor. A SoC block that implements video post-processing functions needed by a video playback application to produce the final image for the player window. (b) The Arm name for the PL192 Vectored Interrupt Controller; used alongside the Cortex-R5 cores. Also referred to here as AVIC to avoid a name-space conflict with the previous entry.
- VM
- Virtual Machine
- VPR
Video Protect Region.
- Warm boot
Exit from SC7 state.
- WDT
Watchdog Timer. These timers can generate interrupts or resets to attempt to break the AP out of undesirable states.
- WFE
Wait For Event (an Arm instruction).
- WFI
Wait For Interrupt (an Arm instruction).

- Getting Started
- Term
- Definition
- WID
Write ID (from the AXI specification).
- W1C
Write as 1 to Clear. xHCI eXtensible Host Controller Interface for USB.
- XIP
eXecute In Place. Debug-only scheme where the primary IROM code is bypassed, and external code is fetched instead at reset, to test out Boot ROM code. This code is executed in-place from the external device, i.e., executed per instruction without fetching the entire code chunk.
- YCbCr
An alternative pixel representation that can take advantage of the properties of the human psycho- perceptual vision system and store the color difference information with lower spatial resolution. It consists of a luminance channel Y and two color difference signals Cb and Cr. See the definition of 444/422/420.
- YUV
See YCbCr. U and V are equivalent to Cb and Cr, respectively.
- ZSL
Zero Shutter Lag.

- Memory Architecture and Memory Mapped I/O
3. Memory Architecture and Memory Mapped I/O
