# 1.8 V

8b

- SDMMC Registers
Notes: 1. There is no voltage switching supported in Boot ROM. It uses fuses to select the voltage rail for the bootable SDMMC interfaces. If required, bootloader can do voltage switching later on. Boot ROM uses 8-bit data bus width.
- Reset output available: Yes in the column means that there is a dedicated reset output
available for this interface that can be connected to eMMC card. Higher speed modes of eMMC (HS200 or HS400) are not supported by the boot ROM.
- Boot ROM uses external clock frequency of 375 kHz for initialization of card. For data
transfer, it uses 51 MHz depending on speed supported.
- Boot ROM uses PLLP_OUT0 as the clock source for SDMMC and sets the divisor as need to
achieve the desired frequency: Frequency selection for low-speed mode and high-speed mode: 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. a. For <= EMMC v4.0, v4.1, v4.2: i.
- Low-speed mode < 20 MHz
- High-speed mode >=20 MHz
ii. b. For EMMC v4.3 and above: i.
- Low-speed mode < 26 MHz
- High-speed mode >=26 MHz
ii. 8.
- Boot ROM doesn’t set SDMMCAB_POWER_CONTROL_HOST_0.HIGH_SPEED_EN bit for any
speed mode.
#### 10.10.3.12 SD3.0 Signal Voltage Switching
SD3.0 UHS-I Signal Voltage Switching is only applicable to the removable-card-capable SDMMC1 controller. The SDMMC4 controller does not require these settings because their embedded devices would operate at a fixed voltage.
### 10.10.4 SDMMC Registers
- SDMMC_SYSTEM_ADDRESS_0
32-bit Block Count (SDMA System Address) Register When Host Version 4 Enable is set to 0 in the Host Control 2 register, SDMA uses this register as system address in only 32-bit addressing mode. Auto CMD23 cannot be used with SDMA. When Host Version 4 Enable is set to 1, SDMA uses ADMA System Address register (05Fh-058h) instead of using this register to support both 32-bit and 64-bit addressing. This register is re-assigned to 32-bit Block Count and then SDMA may use Auto CMD23.
- SDMA System Address (Host Version 4 Enable = 0)
- This register contains the system memory address for a SDMA transfer in 32-bit addressing
mode. When the Host Controller stops a SDMA transfer, this register shall point to the 1.

- SDMMC Registers
system address of the next contiguous data position. It can be accessed only if no transaction is executing (i.e., after a transaction has stopped). Reading this register during SDMA transfers may return an invalid value. The Host Driver shall initialize this register before starting a SDMA transaction.
- After SDMA has stopped, the next system address of the next contiguous data position can
be read from this register. The SDMA transfer waits at the every boundary specified by the SDMA Buffer Boundary in the Block Size register.
- The Host Controller generates DMA Interrupt to request the Host Driver to update this
register. The Host Driver sets the next system address of the next data position to this register. When the most upper byte of this register (003h) is written, the Host Controller restarts the SDMA transfer. When restarting SDMA by setting Continue Request in the Block Gap Control register, the Host Controller shall start at the next contiguous address stored here in the SDMA System Address register. ADMA does not use this register. 32-bit Block Count (Host Version 4 Enable = 1) Host Controller Version 4.10 re-defines this register as 32-bit Block Count. In version 4.00, this register may be used as 32-bit block count only for Auto CMD23 to set the argument of the CMD23 while executing Auto CMD23. 2.
- FFFF_FFFFh 4G - 1 block
... ... 0000_0002h 2 blocks 0000_0001h 1 block 0000_0000h Stop Count The Host Controller would decrement the block count of this register every block transfer and data transfer stops when the count reaches zero. This register should be accessed only when no transaction is executing. Reading this register during data transfers may return invalid value.
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- ADDRESS
- SDMMC_BLOCK_SIZE_BLOCK_COUNT_0
- Block Size Register
- HOST_DMA_BUFFER_SIZE
- The large contiguous memory space may not be available in the virtual memory
system. To perform long SDMA transfer, SDMA System Address register shall be

- SDMMC Registers
updated at every system memory boundary during SDMA transfer.
- These bits specify the size of contiguous buffer in the system memory. The
- SDMA transfer shall wait at the every boundary specified by these fields and the
- Host Controller generates the DMA Interrupt to request the Host Driver to
update the SDMA System Address register. At the end of transfer, the Host
- Controller may issue or may not issue DMA Interrupt. In particular, DMA
Interrupt shall not be issued after Transfer Complete Interrupt is issued.
- In case of this register is set to 0 (buffer size = 4K bytes), lower 12-bit of byte
address points data in the contiguous buffer and the upper 20-bit points the location of the buffer in the system memory. The SDMA transfer stops when the Host Controller detects carry out of the address from bit 11 to 12.
- These bits shall be supported when the SDMA Support in the Capabilities
register is set to 1 and this function is active when the DMA Enable in the Transfer Mode register is set to 1. ADMA does not use this register. 000b 4K bytes (Detects A11 carry out) 001b 8K bytes (Detects A12 carry out) 010b 16K Bytes (Detects A13 carry out) 011b 32K Bytes (Detects A14 carry out) 100b 64K bytes (Detects A15 carry out) 101b 128K Bytes (Detects A16 carry out) 110b 256K Bytes (Detects A17 carry out) 111b 512K Bytes (Detects A18 carry out)
- XFER_BLOCK_SIZE_11_0
- This register specifies the block size of data transfers for CMD17, CMD18,
- CMD24, CMD25, and CMD53. Values ranging from 1 up to the maximum buffer
size can be set. In case of memory, it shall be set up to 512 bytes (Refer to
- Implementation Note in Section 1.7.2). It can be accessed only if no transaction
is executing (i.e., after a transaction has stopped). Read operations during transfers may return an invalid value, and write operations shall be ignored. 0800h 2048 Bytes ....... 0200h 512 Bytes 01FFh 511 Bytes ....... 0004h 4 Bytes 0003h 3 Bytes 0002h 2 Bytes 0001h 1 Byte 0000h No data transfer 16-bit BLOCKS_COUNT Host Controller Version 4.10 extends block count to 32-bit (Refer to Section 1.15 in SD host spec4.1). Selection of either 16-bit Block Count register or 32-bit Block Count register is defined as follows: (1) If Host Version 4 Enable in the Host Control 2 register is set to 0 or 16-bit Block Count register is set to non-zero, 16-bit Block Count register is selected.

- SDMMC Registers
(2) If Host Version 4 Enable is set to 1 and 16-bit Block Count register is set to zero, 32-bit Block Count register is selected.
- Use of 16-bit/32-bit Block Count register is enabled when Block Count Enable in
the Transfer Mode register is set to 1 and is valid only for multiple block transfers.
- The Host Driver shall set this
register to a value between 1 and the maximum block count. The Host Controller decrements the block count after each block transfer and stops when the count reaches zero. Setting the block count to 0 results in no data blocks is transferred.
- This register should be accessed only when no transaction is executing (i.e., after
transactions are stopped). During data transfer, read operations on this register may return an invalid value and write operations are ignored.
- When a suspend command is completed, the number of blocks yet to be transferred
can be determined by reading this register. Before issuing a resume command, the Host Driver shall restore the previously saved block count.
- FFFFh 65535 blocks
......... 0002h 2 blocks 0001h 1 block 0000h Stop Count
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,x000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:16 0x0
- BLOCKS_COUNT
14:12 0x0 HOST_DMA_BUFFER_SIZE: 0 = DMA4K 1 = DMA8K 2 = DMA16K 3 = DMA32K 4 = DMA64K 5 = DMA128K 6 = DMA256K 7 = DMA512K 11:0 0x0
- XFER_BLOCK_SIZE_11_0
- SDMMC_ARGUMENT_0
- Argument 1 Register
- COMMAND_ARGUMENT

- SDMMC Registers
- The SD Command Argument is specified as bit39-8 of Command-Format in the
Physical Layer Specification.
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- COMMAND_ARGUMENT
- SDMMC_CMD_XFER_MODE_0
- Command and Transfer Mode Register
- COMMAND_INDEX
- These bits shall be set to the command number (CMD0-63, ACMD0-63) that is
specified in bits 45-40 of the Command-Format in the Physical Layer Specification and SDIO Card Specification.
- COMMAND_TYPE
There are three types of special commands: Suspend, Resume and Abort. These bits shall be set to 00b for all other commands. (1) Suspend Command
- If the Suspend command succeeds, the Host Controller shall assume the
- SD Bus has been released and that it is possible to issue the next
command, which uses the DAT line. The Host Controller shall de-assert
- Read Wait for read transactions and stop checking busy for write
transactions. The interrupt cycle shall start, in 4-bit mode. If the Suspend command fails, the Host Controller shall maintain its current state, and the
- Host Driver shall restart the transfer by setting Continue Request in the
- Block Gap Control register. (Refer to 3.12.1 Suspend Sequence)
(2) Resume Command
- The Host Driver re-starts the data transfer by restoring the registers in the
range of 000-00Dh. (Refer to Figure 1-4 in section 1.6 for the register map.) The Host Controller shall check for busy before starting write transfers. (3) Abort Command
- If this command is set when executing a read transfer, the Host Controller
shall stop reads to the buffer. If this command is set when executing a write transfer, the Host Controller shall stop driving the DAT line. After issuing the Abort command, the Host Driver should issue a software reset. (Refer to 3.8 Abort Transaction) 11b Abort CMD12, CMD52 for writing "I/O Abort" in CCCR

- SDMMC Registers
10b Resume CMD52 for writing "Function Select" in CCCR 01b Suspend CMD52 for writing "Bus Suspend" in CCCR 00b Normal Other commands
- DATA_PRESENT_SELECT
- This bit is set to 1 to indicate that data is present and shall be transferred using
the DAT line. It is set to 0 for the following: (1) Commands using only CMD line (ex. CMD52). (2) Commands with no data transfer but using busy signal on DAT[0] line (R1b or R5b ex. CMD38) (3) Resume command
- CMD_INDEX_CHECK_EN
- If this bit is set to 1, the Host Controller shall check the Index field in the
response to see if it has the same value as the command index. If it is not, it is reported as a Command Index Error. If this bit is set to 0, the Index field is not checked.
- CMD_CRC_CHECK_EN
- If this bit is set to 1, the Host Controller shall check the CRC field in the
response. If an error is detected, it is reported as a Command CRC Error. If this bit is set to 0, the CRC field is not checked. The position of CRC field is determined according to the length of the response. (Refer to definition in
- D01-00 and Table 2-10 below.)
- Sub Command Flag
- This bit is added from Version 4.10 to distinguish a main command or sub
command (Refer to Section 1.17). When issuing a main command, this bit is set to 0 and when issuing a sub command, this bit is set to 1. Setting of this bit is checked by Sub Command Status in the Present State register.
- Host Driver manages whether main or sub command. Host Controller does
not refer to this bit to issue a command. 1 Sub Command 0 Main Command
- RESP_TYPE_SELECT
Normal Mode: 00 No Response 01 Response Length 136 10 Response Length 48 11 Response Length 48 check Busy after response
- Response Interrupt Disable
- Host Controller Version 4.00 supports response error check function to avoid
overhead of response error check by Host Driver. Only R1 or R5 can be checked.
- If Host Driver checks response error, sets this bit to 0 and waits Command
Complete Interrupt and then check the response register.
- If Host Controller checks response error, sets this bit to 1 and sets Response
- Error Check Enable to 1. Command Complete Interrupt is disabled by this bit
regardless of Command Complete Signal Enable. 0 Response Interrupt is enabled 1 Response Interrupt is disabled
- Response Error Check Enable

- SDMMC Registers
- Host Controller Version 4.00 supports response error check function to avoid
overhead of response error check by Host Driver. Only R1 or R5 can be checked.
- If Host Driver checks response error, this bit is set to 0 and Response Interrupt
Disable is set to 0.
- If Host Controller checks response error, sets this bit to 1 and sets Response
- Interrupt Disable to 1. Response Type R1 / R5 selects either R1 or R5
response type. If an error is detected, Response Error Interrupt is generated in the Response Error Interrupt Status register 0 Response Error Check is disabled 1 Response Error Check is enabled
- Response Type R1 / R5
- When response error check is enabled, this bit selects either R1 or R5 response
types. Two types of response check is supported: R1 for memory and R5 for SDIO.
- Error Statuses Checked in R1
- Bit31 OUT_OF_RANGE
- Bit30 ADDRESS_ERROR
- Bit29 BLOCK_LEN_ERROR
- Bit26 WP_VIOLATION
- Bit25 CARD_IS_LOCKED
- Bit23 COM_CRC_ERROR
- Bit21 CARD_ECC_FAILED
- Bit20 CC_ERROR
- Bit19 ERROR
- Response Flags Checked in R5
- Bit07 COM_CRC_ERROR
- Bit03 ERROR
- Bit01 FUNCTION_NUMBER
- Bit00 OUT_OF_RANGE
0 R1 (Memory) 1 R5 (SDIO)
- MULTI_BLOCK_SELECT - Multi / Single Block Select
- This bit is set when issuing multiple-block transfer commands using DAT line. For
any other commands, this bit shall be set to 0. If this bit is 0, it is not necessary to set the Block Count register. (Refer to Table 2-8) 1 Multiple Block 0 Single Block
- DATA_XFER_DIR_SEL - Data Transfer Direction Select
- This bit defines the direction of DAT line data transfers. The bit is set to 1 by the
- Host Driver to transfer data from the SD card to the SD Host Controller and it is
set to 0 for all other commands. 1 Read (Card to Host) 0 Write (Host to Card)
- AUTO_CMD12_EN - Auto CMD Enable
This field determines use of auto command functions. 00b Auto Command Disabled

- SDMMC Registers
01b Auto CMD12 Enable 10b Auto CMD23 Enable 11b Auto CMD Auto Select There are three methods to stop Multiple-block read/write operation by CMD23 or CMD12. In the other operations (ex. single read/write operation), this field is set to 00b. (1) Auto CMD12 Enable
- When this field is set to 01b, the Host Controller issues CMD12 automatically when last
block transfer is completed. Auto CMD12 error is indicated to the Auto CMD Error Status register. The Host Driver shall not set this bit if the command does not require CMD12. In particular, secure commands defined in the Part 3 File Security specification do not require CMD12. When Host Version 4 Enable =0, CMD12 is issued when 16-bit Block Count is expired. When Host Version 4 Enable =1, CMD12 is issued when 16-bit Block Count or 32-bit Block Count is expired. (2) Auto CMD23 Enable
- When this bit field is set to 10b, the Host Controller issues a CMD23
automatically before issuing a command specified in the Command Register.
- The Host Controller Version 3.00 and later shall support this function. The
following conditions are required to use the Auto CMD23.
- Auto CMD23 Supported (Host Controller Version is 3.00 or later)
A memory card that supports CMD23 (SCR[33]=1) If DMA is used, it shall be ADMA.
- Only when CMD18 or CMD25 is issued
(Note, the Host Controller doesnt check command index.)
- Auto CMD23 can be used with or without ADMA. By writing the Command
register, the Host Controller issues a CMD23 first and then issues a command specified by the Command Index in Command register. If response errors of
- CMD23 are detected, the second command is not issued. A CMD23 error is
indicated in the Auto CMD Error Status register. 32-bit block count value for CMD23 is set to 32-bit Block Count (SDMA System Address) register. (3) Auto CMD Auto Select (Version 4.10)
- As CMD23 is optional for SD Memory Card except UHS104 Card, If card
supports CMD23, Auto CMD23 should be used instead of Auto CMD12. Host Controller Version
