# 4.608 MHz

Clock to carry 24-bit stereo audio data in 96 kHz sampling or 16-bit six-channel audio data in 48 kHz sampling 12 MHz
- Minimum crystal frequency
## 18.432 MHz
- Clock to carry 24-bit eight-channel audio data in 96 kHz sampling
## 36.864 MHz
- Clock to carry 24-bit eight-channel audio data in 192 kHz sampling (HDMI maximum)
While AHUB runs under one clock, AHUB_CLK, its clients have their own clocks. AHUBCIF is the clock boundary in the clients. The following figure shows the clocking scheme around AHUB.
**Figure 7.64 Clock Domains**
- Packing/Unpacking Data
This feature is available only for the ADMA Interface. 32-bit packets coming from ADMA can be unpacked to 8- or 16-bit words before being transmitted to the AXBAR. The reverse path has the capability of packing 8- or 16-bit words in 32-bit packets. The caveat is that the packing can only be done for incoming words of 8- or 16-bits, but not 24 bits, as a single 24-bit word cannot be placed (packed) in two different packets. So AXBAR_BITS in both cases can only be for 8- or 16-bits.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.2 I2S Controller
The Inter-IC Sound (I2S) controller implements full-duplex and bidirectional and single direction point-to-point serial interfaces. It can interface with I2S-compatible devices.
- I2S Interaction with External Device
The I2S controller can operate both as master and slave. It supports the following data transfer modes:
- I2S mode
- Left Justified Mode (LJM)
- Right Justified Mode (RJM)
- DSP mode, as defined in the Philips inter-IC-sound (I2S) bus specification
- PCM mode with short (one-bit-clock wide) and long-FSYNC (two bit-clocks wide)
- Network (Telephony) mode with independent slot selection for both Tx and Rx
TDM mode with flexibility in number of slots with up to 16 slots.
- Capability to drive-out a High-Z outside the prescribed slot for transmission
The I2S controller can transmit and receive word lengths of 8, 16, 24, and 32. It supports u-Law and A-Law compression/decompression. The I2S controller can control the flow of traffic from another I2S controller operating on an independent bit clock (with a ppm difference compared with its own bit clock).
- Transmission/Reception Data Formats
- LRCK Modes
This subsection illustrates three LRCK modes: Basic I2S mode, Right Justified mode, and Left Justified mode. Basic I2S Mode: In Basic I2S mode, data starts one SCLK after the LRCK edge (Offset = 1).

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.65 Basic I2S Mode Illustrated**
Right Justified (RJ) Mode: In RJ mode, data starts (r/2 – n) SCLKs after the LRCK edge (Offset = r/2 – n, where r = number of SCLKs per LRCK, n = number of bits/sample).
**Figure 7.66 RJ Mode Illustrated**
Left Justified (LJ) Mode: In LJ mode, data starts 0 SCLKs after the LRCK edge (Offset = 0).
**Figure 7.67 LJ Mode Illustrated**
- FSYNC Modes

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
The width of the FSYNC, the Offset value, number of slots and number of SCLKs per 1/Fs are all configurable. The slots are always contiguous.
**Figure 7.68 FSYNC Mode Illustrated**
The width of the FSYNC, the Offset value, number of slots (n), and number of SCLKs per 1/Fs are configurable. But the slots are always be contiguous. Besides these, there is also the concept of "Slot Enables" which is used to specify which slots within one FSYNC actually contain data. The table below shows register fields corresponding to the parameters mentioned above.
- Table 7.108 FSYNC Register Fields and Their Corresponding Parameters
- Parameter Name
- Register Field Name
- FSYNC width
- I2S_CTRL_0_FSYNC_WIDTH
- Offset
- I2S_AXBAR_RX_CTRL_0_DATA_OFFSET
- I2S_AXBAR_TX_CTRL_0_DATA_OFFSET
- Number of slots
- I2S_SLOT_CTRL_0_TOTAL_SLOTS
- Number of sclks per 1/Fs
- I2S_TIMING_CHANNEL_0_BIT_CNT
- Slot Enables
- I2S_AXBAR_RX_SLOT_CTRL_0_SLOT_ENABLES
The following set of diagrams shows the timing relationship between FSYNC, SCLK, and DATA lines for some sample parameter value sets.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.69 Relationship between SCLK, FSYNC, and DATA for Different FSYNC Widths and**
- Offset Values
- Sometimes CODEC/MODEM manufacturers specify a unique set of values for these parameters
and refer to it using proprietary names like PCM mode, NW mode, etc. The following diagram shows the relationship between SCLK, FSYNC, and DATA lines for these modes that the audio hardware team has encountered in the past.
- These names are proprietary and are not standardized. So it is possible that two CODEC
manufacturers have DSP mode, but they each specify completely different set of values for the FSYNC mode parameters. Hence, these following diagrams need to be taken as examples that can help you understand what set of parameter values result in what kind of timing diagrams, that is instead of literally taken as the set of parameter values/timing diagrams for the various mode names listed for them. Always refer to the CODEC/MODEM/external chip datasheet to find out what kind of relationship is expected between SCLK, FSYNC, and DATA lines in the I2S and accordingly use the following examples as a knowledge base and figure out the correct parameter configuration.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.70 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – TDM Mode**

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.71 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – NW Mode**
**Figure 7.72 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – DSP Mode**

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.73 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – PCM Mode**
##### 7.7.2.2.3 Digital MIC Controller
The Digital MIC (DMIC) Controller is used to interface with Pulse Density Modulation (PDM) input devices. The DMIC controller implements a converter to convert PDM signals to PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) signals. From the signal flow perspective, the DMIC can be viewed as a PDM receiver.
- DMIC Features
- Sample rate support: 8 to 48 kHz
- Input PCM bit width: 16 to 24 bits
- Oversampling Ratio: 64, 128, 256
24-bit fixed output bit width
##### 7.7.2.2.4 Mixer
The Mixer supports mixing up to ten 7.1 channel audio input streams and five outputs (each of which can be a mix of any combination of the 10 input streams). Examples include mixing system tones with voice calls, mixing two audio playbacks to create a transition effect, mixing system announcements with audio playback.
- Mixer Features
- Support of mixing up to 10 input streams of 7.1 channel audio each
- Support of five outputs each of which can be a mix of any combination of 10 input streams
- Time ramp-up/ramp-down volume control provided for each stream

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Fixed gain for each stream is also available
A 32-bit sample counter is provided for each input stream to count the number of samples consumed A peak meter for each input stream is available. It can give peak values for non-overlapping frames of samples or can do continuous reset-on-read peak metering
##### 7.7.2.2.5 Audio Multiplexer Block
The Audio Multiplexer (AMX) block can multiplex up to four input streams of up to 16 channels each and generate an output stream of up to 16 channels A byte RAM helps to form an output frame by any combination of bytes from the four input frames Two modes for data synchronization between input frames are available. This feature only starts the data transfer. Once data transfer starts (if at least one frame is sent out), the AMX works in “Wait for all mode” (if auto disable mode is NOT enabled) Waiting for All mode: At the beginning, wait for all enabled input streams to have data before forming the very first frame.
- Waiting for Any mode
Start whenever data is available in any one of the enabled input streams. In either mode, once the first output frame is sent out, AMX always waits for all active streams to have data available before forming and sending subsequent frames. The AMX supports the Auto disable and Auto enable feature of IDLE streams.
##### 7.7.2.2.6 Audio Demultiplexer Block
- The Audio Demultiplexer (ADX) block takes an input stream with up to 16 channels and
demultiplexes it into four output streams of up to 16 channels each. A byte RAM helps to form output frames by any combination of bytes from the input frame. Its design is identical to that of the byte RAM in the AMX except that the data flow direction is reversed. The ADX provides an automatic stream activation/deactivation mechanism.
##### 7.7.2.2.7 Sampling Frequency Converter
The Sampling Frequency Converter (SFC) converts the sampling frequency of the input signal from one frequency to another. The SFC is an AXBAR client and hence interacts with other AHUB modules using the Audio Client Interface (ACIF) protocol.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- SFC Features
- Support of sampling frequency conversion of streams of up to two channels (stereo)
- Very low latency with the maximum latency of < 125 µs
- Support of the following frequency conversions
- Table 7.109 Supported Frequency Conversions (in kHz)
- FsIn/
- FsOut
11.02 22.05 44.1 88.2 176.4
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x 11.025 x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x 22.05 x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x 44.1 x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x 88.2 x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x 176.4 x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
##### 7.7.2.2.8 Audio Flow Controller
The Audio Flow Controller (AFC) can control the flow of traffic between two I2S interfaces running at different clocks that are up to 100 ppm apart. The AFC implements high fidelity interpolation and decimation algorithms that compensate for clock differences. It can control traffic flow anywhere in the audio route, even to the inputs of AMX blocks. The AFC can handle burst traffic from SFCs.
##### 7.7.2.2.9 Output Processing Engine
The Output Processing Engine (OPE) has scalable number of BiQuad stages to support stereo, 5p1, and 7p1 channels meeting Ultra-Low Power (ULP) audio requirements.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.10 Master Volume Control
The Master Volume Control (MVC) provides gain or attenuation to a digital signal path. It can be used in input or output digital signal path for per-stream volume control as well as master volume control. The MVC block has one input and one output. The input digital stream can be mono- or multi- channel (up to 7.1 channels) stream. The output digital stream has the same format as the input stream. Therefore, the sample rate, number of channels, number of bits per sample in the output stream are the same as those in the input stream. An independent mute/unmute control is also included in the MVC block. In addition, whenever the gain or mute setting is changed, the gain applied in digital volume control block is ramped up or down to the new setting. The parameters of the ramp, such as the duration and ramp-curve are programmable. In addition to linear ramp this design also provides hardware acceleration for the Windows audio curve type fade. The windows audio curve type fade is typically implemented using a programmable processor. The MVC block also has a built-in peak meter detector. Peak meter detector is used as a feedback to the user. It is located after volume application and provides the peak output data for each channel. The duration used for the peak meter calculation is programmable.
- MVC Features
- Programmable range and steps for volume control
- Programmable Curve Ramp for volume control
- Independent mute/unmute controls
- Default gain values
- Peak meter detector
##### 7.7.2.2.11 Digital Speaker Controller
The Digital Speaker Controller (DSPK) converts the multi-bit Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) audio input to oversampled 1-bit Pulse Density Modulation (PDM) output. From the signal flow perspective, the DSPK can be viewed as a PDM transmitter that up-samples the input to the desired sampling rate by interpolation then converts the oversampled PCM input to the desired 1- bit output via Delta Sigma Modulation (DSM).
- DSPK Features
- Sample rate support: 8 to 48 kHz
- Input PCM bit-width: 16 to 24 bits
- Oversampling Ratio: 32, 64, 128, 256
- Passband frequency response: <= 0.5 dB peak-to-peak in 10 Hz to 20 kHz range
- THD+N: <= -80 dB @ -10 dBFS
- Dynamic Range: >= 105 dB

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.12 Arbitrary Sample Rate Converter
Audio systems may require high fidelity sample rate conversion because of the plurality of the audio sources. The sample rate may not be known at the stream set-up time, or is potentially time varying. In addition, ratio between input and output sample rate can be any arbitrary number and the input and output clocks could be derived from asynchronous clocks. For this, an Arbitrary Asynchronous Sample Rate Converter (HQ-AASRC) is required. AASRC consists of two parts. First part is the High Quality Arbitrary Sample Rate Converter (HQ-ASRC) or ASRC module. Arbitrary Sample Rate Converter (ASRC) can convert the input samples at input sample rate (fs_in) to output samples at output sample rate (fs_out). This design can handle over a wide-range of sampling-rate ratios from 1:24 to 24:1. Second part is the Ratio-Estimator module. This block estimates the ratio fs_in/fs_out. Ratio-Estimator can be implemented in hardware using the clocks to derive the sampling rate ratios or it can be implemented in software using the input and output buffer fullness.
##### 7.7.2.2.13 ASRC Features
- Support of input sample rates in the range 8 to 192 kHz
- Support of output sample rates in the range 8 to 192 kHz
- Support of any sampling ratio from 1:24 to 24:1
- Provision of THD+N (0 dBFS @1 kHz, 24-bit samples), i.e., 140 dB or better
## 0.25 dB peak-to-peak Passband Ripple (DC to 0.4535 Fs)
- Linear Phase Response
- Support of input formats up to 16, 24, and 32 bits
- Support of up to six streams up to 16 total channels
- Configurable channel assignment
Examples: 1x8 channel + 2x2 channel, 6x2 channel, 1x8 channel + 1x4 channel, etc.
- Worst-case ASRC input to output processing latency to be under ~10 mS in I/O to I/O
transfers (This mainly involves buffering delay for ASRC operations.)
##### 7.7.2.2.14 Audio Ratio Detector
The Audio Ratio Detector (ARAD) has several lanes, each of which has the capacity to find the frequency/time period ratio between any two of the I/O clocks in APE. This has many applications including sample rate conversion without software configuration of the ratio, ppm compensation, etc. While determining the ratio between two clocks, ARAD smooths out one-OFF abnormalities in the clocks so that the ratio value isn't affected by spurious changes in the input clocks.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.15 Audio Direct Memory Access Interface
The Audio Direct Memory Access (ADMA) interface is a gateway in the AHUB for facilitating DMA transfers between memory and all of its clients. Basically it acts as a bridge to convert 32-bit full duplex AXI protocol to 1-bit DVS protocol with sufficient buffering for supporting seamless data transfers.
- ADMA Interface Features
- ADMAIF is the interface between ADMA and AHUB. Each ADMA channel that sends/receives data
to/from AHUB must interface through an ADMAIF channel. ADMA channel sending data to AHUB pairs with an ADMAIF Tx channel. ADMA channel receiving data from AHUB pairs with an ADMAIF Rx channel. Buffer size is configurable for each ADMAIF channel. 4 KiB of buffering per direction for seamless DMA transfers
- Dynamic or software configurable buffer allocation based on bandwidth and latency needs of
each channel A maximum of 20 channels can be configured per direction for audio samples transfer between memory and AHUB clients 32-bit full duplex AXI slave interface to communicate with ADMA for DMA transfers
- Up to 16 words of burst size
- APB slave interface for register programming
1-bit ACIF interface per channel to communicate with other AHUB clients through AXBAR
- Samples transfer through both DMA and register access (PIO mode)
Support of packing (8 or 16 bits to 32 bits) in upstream direction and unpacking (32 bits to 8 or 16 bits) in downstream direction
#### 7.7.2.3 ADMA
- The ADMA caters to the DMA needs of APE clients. It performs audio samples transfer among
system memory, internal memory/ARAM, and AHUB through multiple unidirectional channels. A unidirectional channel is a point-to-point virtual connection for facilitating blocks of data movement with minimal CPU intervention. ADMA is plugged into the APE with the interfaces AXI interconnect for datapath, AHOST/REGDEC for programming interface, and AHUB for DMA requests originating from its internal clients.
##### 7.7.2.3.1 ADMA Features
- Flow controlled (Memory ↔ AHUB or AHUB ↔ AHUB) and non-flow controlled (Memory ↔
- Memory) DMA transfers
- DMA requests based on FIFO status of the requesters in case of flow controlled transfers

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Two AXI Master interfaces
(One of them dedicated to the transferring of data to and from AHUB and the other one is hooked up to ACONNECT for the transfers to and from ARAM/DRAM)
- Per channel pre-mask Interrupt for indicating transfer completion to the AGIC
- AGIC routes the post-mask Interrupt to ADSP/CPU
28-bit word-aligned transfer size that can be configured up to 1 GiB 30-bit word-aligned source and target addresses
- Page or 4 KiB boundary alignment
- Per channel configurable burst size up to 16 words for all transfers
- Auto initialization of transfer size, source and target addresses on completion of
programmed words transfer in continuous mode
- Scatter/Gather through linked list for accessing non-contiguous memory regions
Software may use this feature in two scenarios:
- When requiring streaming of audio samples spread across the memory
- When requiring less intervention from CPU
- CPU need not attend the end of Interrupts transfer from ADMA on a regular basis. It
can occasionally write a bunch of descriptors into memory and attend other high priority tasks.
- Descriptor is a set of four registers (SOURCE_ADDR, TARGET_ADDR,
- TRANSFER_COUNT and NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR) located in consecutive 32-bit
entries of DRAM/ARAM starting with SOURCE_ADDR. ADMA fetches next descriptor (SOURCE_ADDR, TARGET_ADDR, TRANSFER_COUNT and NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR) pointed to by the "NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR" of current descriptor for the next transfer while current transfer is in progress and these values are loaded at the end of the current transfer.
- Initially, it is loaded by software while setting up the channel and then automatically
loaded by hardware prior to end of each block transfer to enable seamless streaming.
- ADMA keeps fetching the descriptor from ARAM/DRAM pointed to by
"NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR" until either software disables the channel or "NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR" register value of current descriptor is "0". Configurable address wrapping window in multiples of burst size for source and target in all modes
- Up to eight buffers in all three transfer modes (linked list, once and continuous modes)
- Source and target addresses initialized on completion of all programmed buffers transfer,
then Interrupt is generated on completion of every buffer transfer in continuous and linked list modes
- Interrupt generated on every buffer completion and channel would be disabled on
completion of all buffers in once mode
- Up to eight outstanding reads and writes

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- ADMA allowing a maximum of eight reads to source memory and that many writes to the
target memory to be outstanding at any given point of time
- ADMA issuing read/write requests to ARAM/DRAM by mapping channel number to the
- ARID/AWID of AXI interface so that requests from different channels can pass each other
and requests from same channel are handled in order or on first-come-first-serve basis en route to the target elements
- Weighted Round Robin arbitration scheme for selecting read requests to AHUB and Memory
- Each DMA channel programmed to a weight/request count so that it gets the grant for
issuing that many requests back-to-back. (This is applicable for all flow-controlled (AHUB) and non-flow-controlled transfers (ARAM/
- DRAM).)
- Separate WRR arbiters used for AHUB and Memory Reads to enable un-interrupted full
duplex transfer
- Configurable triggers for initiating DMA transfer
- Triggers for each channel mapped to end of channel Interrupt of all other DMA channels so
that software can choose one of them to instruct the channel to initiate the transfer upon assertion of that particular Interrupt
- Cut-through data transfers
ADMA converting the returned data for the read requests issued to source element into write requests to the target element and forwarding them on AXI write channels in cut-through mode 32 channels where each channel can be configured for DMA transfer in any of four possible directions
- MEMORY-to-AHUB
- AHUB-to-MEMORY
- AHUB-to-AHUB
- MEMORY-to-MEMORY
- Threshold-based flow-control for VI/I2C triggered DMA transfer
- ADMA Channel Virtualization
- Virtualization of ADMA channel registers in to four 64K pages
- Separation of ADMA Config registers into another 64K pages
- APR region and ADAST support
- Preventing secured data from writing into non-APR region
- Unsecure ADMA channel (APR disabled) blocking the writing of secure data (APR set) to
memory
- One ADMA error Interrupt per OS page
- Timestamp capture support
32-bit Timestamp (TSC) captured in timestamp buffer in memory or in register - -
- Timestamp capture at DMA transfer done
32-bit wraps around about every 2 minutes

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Per-channel timestamp buffer and register
- Programmable outstanding transactions cap per channel
Burst size from 1 to 16 words (VI/I2C). 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 for other transfers. Transaction type based on Req Sel
##### 7.7.2.3.2 ADMA Descriptor Format
The ADMA Descriptor is as follows:
- Table 7.110 ADMA Descriptor Format
32-bit
- Offset
- Name
- Description
source_addr
- Address of the Source Buffer must be 4-byte aligned. Source Buffer could be in DRAM
or ARAM. target_addr
- Address of the Target Buffer must be 4-byte aligned. Target Buffer could be in DRAM
or ARAM. transfer_count Value in Transfer_count must be a multiple of 4 (4 bytes). next_descriptor _addr
- Address of the next descriptor must be 4-byte aligned. Next descriptor could be in
DRAM or ARAM. (Address == 0) indicates last Descriptor in the linked list. The address fields, like all the addresses in APE, are only 32 bits wide. This limit applies to both ADSP and ADMA. To access more than 32 bits, there are two options: either use the APE AST's (ACAST or ADAST) to re-map to more than 32 bits, or use SMMU to map to higher than 4G space.
#### 7.7.2.4 REGDEC
REGDEC provides the host interface for ADMA and AHUB in the APE. REGDEC provides only a direct register access path from ADSP/CPU to ADMA/AHUB. Command DMA and command synchronization features in AHOST are not supported by REGDEC.
- REGDEC receives register requests targeted to ADMA and AHUB, decodes the requests, and
forwards the requests to the corresponding REGDEC clients.
##### 7.7.2.4.1 REGDEC Features
- AXI3 interface to ACONNECT
- Host controller client interface to AHUB and ADMA
- Direct Register Access for AHUB and ADMA
- Frequency: 100 MHz

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.2.5 ACONNECT
ACONNECT provides the backbone fabric for APE. Both register (control) and memory accesses are routed through ACONNECT. ACONNECT is implemented using Arm IP NIC-400. ACONNECT supports the AXI3 and APB bus protocols.
#### 7.7.2.6 Audio RAM and Audio Memory Controller
Audio RAM (ARAM) provides a low latency local ARAM to ADSP processor and other modules. Sixteen (16) 32-bit EVP registers provide a vector table at reset.
##### 7.7.2.6.1 Audio Memory Controller Features
- AXI3 bus interface to ACONNECT
64-bit Read and Write data channels 16 32-bit EVP registers
- EVP Registers can be locked by sticky bit
96 KiB ARAM
#### 7.7.2.7 APE Interrupt Controller
The APE Interrupt Controller (AGIC) serves as the Interrupt controller in the APE. It aggregates the Interrupt lines from all the APE modules and distributes them to ADSP and the system. AGIC is an implementation of the Arm GIC-400 Generic Interrupt Controller, revision r0p1. Details downloaded from their website, http://arm.com.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.74 AGIC Functional Diagram**
##### 7.7.2.7.1 Shared Peripheral Interrupts
There are two Interrupt lines (FIQ/IRQ) per channel. Interrupts that are mapped to FIQ should use group 0. Interrupts that are mapped to IRQ should use group 1. Group 0 is recommended for higher priority Interrupts.
- Table 7.111 Interrupts Signals to GIC
- Signal
- ID
I/O
- Edge/Level
- Description
(not relevant) 31:0 I
- Level
- Software-Generated Interrupts (SGI's)

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Signal
- ID
I/O
- Edge/Level
- Description
adma_eot[31:0] 63:32 I
- Level
- ADMA Channel End of Transfer Interrupt
ahsp_mbox_full[7:0] 71:64 I
- Level
- AHSP Mailbox Full Interrupt
ahsp_mbox_empty[7:0] 79:72 I
- Level
- AHSP Mailbox Empty Interrupt
ashp_shrd_intr[4:0] 84:80 I
- Level
- AHSP Shared Interrupt
adsp_pmuirq I
- Level
- ADSP/PTM Performance Monitoring Unit Interrupt
adsp_wdresetreq I
- Edge
- ADSP Watchdog Timer Reset Request
adsp_l2ccintr I
- Level
- ADSP L2 Cache Controller Interrupt
ahub_err I
- Level
- AHUB Error Interrupt
amc_err I
- Level
- AMC Error Interrupt
adma_err[3:0] 93:90 I
- Level
- ADMA Error Interrupts
adsp_standbywfi I
- Level
- ADSP Standby WFI. ADSP in idle mode. Waiting for
- Interrupt
adsp_standbywfe I
- Level
- ADSP Standby WFE. ADSP in idle mode. Waiting for
- Event
adsp_ctiirq I
- Level
- Interrupt request by Cortex-A9 debug trigger interface
ape_actmon I
- Level
- Activity monitoring on ADSP. This Interrupt is from
- AMISC
- Reserved
99,98 I
- Level
- Reserved
- Lic2ape_int[1:0]
101,100 I
- Level
- LIC to APE Interrupts
- Reserved
102,103 I
- Level
- Reserved
i2c_<1,3,8>_int 104,105,106 I
- Level
- I2C <1,3,8> Interrupt
shsp2ape_db I
- Level
- System Door Bell Interrupt
top_wdt_fiq I
- Level
- Top WDT Fiq Interrupt
top_wdt_irq I
- Level
- Top WDT Irq Interrupt
atke_tmr_irq[3:0] 113:110 I
- Level
- ATKE Timer Irq Interrupt
atke_wdt_fiq I
- Level
- ATKE WDT Fiq Interrupt
atke_wdt_irq I
- Level
- ATKE WDT Irq Interrupt
atke_wdt_error I
- Level
- ATKE WDT error Interrupt
- Reserved
127:117 I
- Level
- Reserved

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Notice that ID assignment of SPI starts from 32. Asynchronous Interrupt signals are synchronized in AGIC before sending to GIC-400. Signal adsp_wdresetreq is edge-triggered. The remaining APE Interrupts are level-triggered.
##### 7.7.2.7.2 AGIC Features
32-bit AXI-4 compliant slave interface to ACONNECT
- Secure access to AGIC registers
##### 7.7.2.7.3 Programming Sequence
- Identifying the Supported Interrupts
This section discusses how to discover which Interrupts are supported. 1.
- Read GICD_TYPER. The ITLinesNumber field identifies the number of implemented
GICD_ISENABLERns.
- Write to GICD_CTLR to disable forwarding of Interrupts from distributor to the CPU
interfaces For each implemented GICD_ISENABLERn, starting with GICD_ISENABLER0: 2. 3. Write (GICD_ISENABLERn = 0xffffffff). Read (GICD_ISENABLERn). Bits that read as 1 correspond to supported Interrupt IDs.
- Discovering Permanently Enabled Interrupts
1. 2. Write (GICD_ICENABLERn = 0xffffffff) to disable all Interrupts that can be disabled. Read (GICD_ICENABLERn). Bits that read as 1 correspond to Interrupts that are permanently enabled.
- Write (GICD_ISENABLERn[i] = 1),
where i corresponds to Interrupts that must be re-enabled. 3.
- Routing an SPI Interrupt to CPU/ADSP through FIQ using Group 1
1. 2. 3. Write (GICD_ICENABLERn = 0xffffffff) to disable all Interrupts that can be disabled. Write (GICD_CTLR = 0x2) to enable Grp1 Interrupts. Write to Interrupt Configuration Registers, GICD_ICFGRn, to configure Interrupt type (level or edge).
- Write (GICD_IGROUPR[i] = 1) to set the intended Interrupt to Group1,
where i corresponds to the intended Interrupt position.
- Write to Interrupt Priority Registers, GICD_IPRIORITYRn, to assign Interrupt priority if
necessary. Write to GICD Priority Masked Interrupt, GICD_PMR, to set the Interrupt mask level.
- Write to Interrupt Processor Target Registers, GICD_ITARGETSRn, to direct the Interrupt to
CPU. 4. 5. 6. 7.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
8. 9. Write to Interrupt Set-Enable Register, GICD_ISENABLERn, to enable the Interrupts. Enable CPU Interface Control Register (GICC_CTLR) of the destined CPU. AGIC is based on generic Interrupt controller Arm IP GIC400. It serves as the APE Interrupt controller, which detects, manages, and distributes Interrupts. The GIC-400 complies to
- AMBA AXI4 protocol and Version 2 of the Arm GIC Architecture Specification. The GIC-400
implements the GICv2 Security Extension. GIC does not support virtual extension. The feature is implemented in GIC-400 but is not used or verified. Cortex-A9 doesn't support virtualization architecture. FIQEn <= 1.
- Routing an SPI Interrupt to CPU/ADSP through FIQ using Group 0
1. 2. 3. Write (GICD_ICENABLERn = 0xffffffff) to disable all Interrupts that can be disabled. Write (GICD_CTLR = 0x1) to enable Grp0 Interrupts. Write to Interrupt Configuration Registers, GICD_ICFGRn, to configure Interrupt type (level or edge).
- Write (GICD_IGROUPR[i] = 1) to set the intended Interrupt to Group0,
where i corresponds to the intended Interrupt position. Write to Interrupt Priority Registers, GICD_IPRIORITYRn, to assign Interrupt priority by if necessary. Write to GICD Priority Masked Interrupt, GICD_PMR, to set the Interrupt mask level.
- Write to Interrupt Processor Target Registers, GICD_ITARGETSRn, to direct the Interrupt to
CPU. Write to Interrupt Set-Enable Register, GICD_ISENABLERn, to enable the Interrupts . Enable CPU Interface Control Register (GICC_CTLR) of the destined CPU. See Arm GIC Architecture Specification version 2, Table 2-2 and 2-3 for IRQ and FIQ behavior. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. FIQEn <= 1.
- EnableGrp0 <= 1. Enable Group 0 Interrupts using the FIQ signal. Group1 Interrupts always
uses IRQ signal.
#### 7.7.2.8 Audio Miscellaneous (AMISC)
This module contains ADSP configuration registers, timestamp registers for EAVB synchronization, key slots, ACTMON and debug registers.
##### 7.7.2.8.1 AMISC Features
- Secure ADSP Configuration Registers
- Four 128-bit key slots
- EAVB Timestamp Registers
- APB4 bus interface to ACONNECT
- TSC terminal node

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
32-bit data width
#### 7.7.2.9 ACAST and ADAST
There are two instances of AST: ACAST and ADAST. AST is responsible for looking up 40-bit address and transaction attributes based on the 32-bit address.
##### 7.7.2.9.1 ACAST
DRAM accesses originates from ADSP go through ACAST. There are eight AST regions in ACAST. ACAST looks up transaction attributes using address.
##### 7.7.2.9.2 ADAST
- DRAM accesses from ADMA and ASRC go through ADAST. There are eight AST regions in ADAST
and is looked up based on APR enable and region ID associated with the transactions.
#### 7.7.2.10 APB-AXI Shim
APB-AXI Shim (AAS) is an APB2AXI shim which converts APB requests into AXI requests. The CPU accesses APE registers through the AAS over the APB bus. The AAS converts the requests to AXI and sends to ACONNECT which forwards the requests to the destination slaves.
##### 7.7.2.10.1 AAS Features
- APB4
- Support of AxProt[2:0]
- PSLVERR
- Maximum of one outstanding APB request
- Support of request
- INCR 1: 32-bit Read/Write
#### 7.7.2.11 APE HSP
Hardware Sync Primitives (HSP) captures shared mailboxes and shared semaphores from the APE
