# 5.1 Overview

Clusters, each containing four Arm® Cortex®‑A78AE cores, sometimes referred to by the code-name Hercules-AE.
### 5.1.1 Reference Documentation
- The majority of the documentation for this CPU is supplied by Arm, and the following Arm
documents should be referred to. All these documents are publicly available on the Arm Developer web site, and the links below are valid at the time of publishing this section, but might potentially change, in which case a search on the document name should locate it.
#### 5.1.1.1 List of References
The CCPLEX chapter makes the implicit use of the following documents available from Arm, and assumes readers are familiar with the Arm Architecture, and have access to the documents for reference. Refer to the Arm website to download these documents. See the Additional reading section under About this book in each of the following for additional Arm publications containing other relevant information. https://developer.arm.com/documentation/101779/latest https://developer.arm.com/documentation/101799/latest https://developer.arm.com/documentation/101322/latest https://developer.arm.com/documentation/101206/latest
- Arm® Architecture Reference Manual Armv8, for Armv8-A architecture profile
https://developer.arm.com/documentation/ddi0487/latest/ Refer also to the most recent version of the errata notices.

- CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
- Arm Cortex-A78AE (MP105) Software Developer Errata Notice
https://developer.arm.com/documentation/SDEN1707912/latest
- Arm DSU-AE (MP092)Software Developer Errata Notice
https://developer.arm.com/documentation/SDEN1343188/latest
- CoreLink GIC-600 Generic Interrupt Controller Software Developer Errata Notice
https://developer.arm.com/documentation/sden892601/latest The floating-point unit conforms to the following two specifications, available from the IEEE: ANSI/IEEE, IEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic, Std 754-1985. ANSI/IEEE, IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic, Std 754-2008.
### 5.1.2 Glossary
This glossary defines a number of terms used in the context of the CPU Complex. See also the glossary in the Introduction section of this document for terms used across the SoC.
- Term
- Definition
- ACDI
Arm Cluster Debug Interface. A design unit in SCF CMU that instantiates the Debug Block IP from Arm and other necessary Coresight debug related collateral to interface with the SoC.
- ACE
- AXI Coherency Extensions
- ACI
Arm Cluster Interface. Arm Cluster’s gateway to the external world is through the ACI design unit.
- ADB
- AMBA Domain Bridge
- AE
- Automotive Enhanced
(as in Cortex®‑A78AE, Hercules-AE, DSU-AE.)
- AMU
- Activity Monitoring Unit
- ARI
Abstract Request Interface. An interface that enables Arm software to communicate with the MCE software to enable modification of CREGs that are part of the CCPLEX.
- Arm Cluster
Cluster may sometimes be referred to as the Arm Cluster to explicitly indicating that the Cluster is made up of CPU cores from Arm (as opposed to NVIDIA CPUs).
- AVFS
- Automatic Voltage Frequency Scaling
- CCPMU
- CCPLEX Power Management Unit
- CMU
- CCPLEX Miscellaneous Unit
- CMULA
- CCPLEX Miscellaneous Unit Logic Analyzer
- CPE
- Copy Engine
- CRAB
- Control Register Access Bus

- CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
- Term
- Definition
- CREG
- Control Register
- CTI
- Cross Trigger Interface
- DSU-AE
DynamIQ™ Shared Unit. Arm IP containing Cluster coherency logic and the Level-3 (L3) Cache.
- DSU-AE
- Cache
The L3 Cache inside the DSU-AE is also referred to as the DSU-AE Cache. (L3 and DSU-AE Cache are synonymous and are used interchangeably in this document.)
- DUT
Design Under Test. (Referring to the design unit that a test bench is attempting to validate.)
- DVM
Distributed Virtual Memory.
- DVM transactions support the maintenance of a virtual memory system
- ETM
- Embedded Trace Macrocell
- FIQ
- Fast Interrupt Request
- FMU
- Fault Management Unit
- IH
- Interrupt Handling unit
- IOB
- Input-Output Bridge
- IRI
- Interrupt Routing Infrastructure
- IRQ
- Interrupt Request
- ISM
In Silicon Measurement. (ISM circuits are sprinkled around the SoC to measure various parameters for silicon characterization.)
- IST
In System Test. (IST is a mechanism akin to running ATPG vectors on a chip tester except that it is performed on chip by hardware similar to Memory Built In Self Test or MBIST.)
- Lock mode
Mode of operation where a pair of CPU's in a CPU Cluster operate as one CPU and is recognized by the operating system also as one CPU.
- MCA
- Machine Check Architecture
- MP2LS
2-core Multi-Processor in Lock Step mode. (An MP4 processor configuration becomes a 2-core configuration in Lock-Step Mode.)
- MP4
4-core Multi-Processor. (Arm acronym denoting a multi-processor CPU configuration with four CPU cores.)
- NAFLL
Noise Aware Frequency Locked Loop. (Noise aware clock generator that is part of the Automatic Voltage Frequency Scaling, or AVFS, sub- system.)
- PMU
Power Management Unit. (CCPMU in NVIDIA nomenclature, and PMU is Arm's nomenclature, while NVIDIA refers to the
- Performance Monitoring Unit as PerfMon.)
- POD
Power On Detector. (A circuit that monitors a voltage rail for glitches and causes a processor reset in case of one.)

- CCPLEX Functional Description
- Term
- Definition
- PPI
- Private Peripheral Interrupt
- RAS
- Reliability, Availability, and Serviceability
- SCF
- System Coherency Fabric
- SCF Cache
System Coherency Fabric has a Cache that is technically Level 4.
- SCU
- Snoop Control Unit
- SKU
Stock Keeping Unit. (A generic term used to inventory and track products) (An SKU is also used to indicate a group of chips that have the same feature set or characteristics.)
- SNOC
- System Network-On-Chip
- SPI
- Shared Peripheral Interrupt
- Split Mode
Mode of operation where each CPU in a CPU Cluster operates independently and is recognized by the operating system as a different CPU. vGIC
- Virtual Generic Interrupt Controller
(Interrupt Controller for v8 Arm architecture.)
### 5.1.3 Conventions of Units
This chapter follows the IEEE and NIST conventions for multiplying prefixes. Among other things, this convention uses an 'i' to indicate the binary convention, and its absence to indicate decimal. So, 1 KiB is 210 or 1,024 bytes, and 1 KB is 103 or 1,000 bytes. Similarly it uses:
- Mi for 220 and M for 106
- Gi for 230 and G for 109
- Ti for 240 and T for 1012
