# 5.2 CCPLEX Functional Description
### 5.2.1 Architecture Overview
The Orin CPU Complex (CCPLEX) uses the Cortex-A78AE CPU core from ARM, that is also referred to as Hercules-AE. The Cortex-A78AE is an ARM Architecture v8-A CPU that has an integrated 256- KiB Level-2 (L2) Cache in each CPU. Each set of four Cortex-A78AE cores is grouped into a quad-core Cluster. The four CPUs in each Cluster are connected to an ARM DynamIQ™ Shared Unit (DSU-AE) to share the 2-MiB Level-3 (L3)

- CCPLEX Functional Description
Cache, also referred to as the DSU-AE Cache. The Orin CCPLEX has up to three of these quad-CPU Clusters.
- An optional safety Lock-Step Mode is supported by the Cortex-A78AE to allow two Cortex-
A78AE cores in a Cluster to execute the same code in tandem and their results compared at each clock cycle. Any divergence (mismatched result) is detected and reported as a Lock-Step Error. This mode can be disabled to allow the two cores to operate independently in Full Performance Mode.
#### 5.2.1.1 Key Features
Up to three CPU Clusters.
- All CPU Clusters share the same 4-MiB 16-way Set-Associative SCF (L4) Cache that is
partitioned in eight 512-KiB slices. Split-Lock-Hybrid Safety Architecture for the Cortex-A78AE processors. Memory-mapped RAS architecture.
- Integration of Clusters with Virtual Generic Interrupt Controller (vGIC) based on ARM
GIC-600AE. Fault Management Unit inside vGIC. AARCH32 Execution Exception Level: EL0 only. AARCH64 Execution Exception Levels: EL0 through EL3.
#### 5.2.1.2 Architecture Summary
##### 5.2.1.2.1 CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
The high-level overview of the CPU Complex showing its CPU Clusters is presented in the diagram below.

- CCPLEX Functional Description
**Figure 5.1 CPU Complex and Its CPU Clusters**
Each CPU Cluster interfaces with an ARM Cluster Interface (ACI) module that is part of the System Coherency Fabric (SCF) and serves as the gateway for signals going in and out of the Cluster. The CPU memory Reads and Writes are routed to SCF Cache Slices then the Memory Controller Fabric (MCF) via ACI and SNOC, while Reads and Writes to the Memory-Mapped Input Output (MMIO) space are routed to the Input Output Bridge (IOB) then Control BackBone (CBB), or back into the units within CCPLEX. The 4-MiB SCF Cache is divided in eight slices, each of 512 KiB.
- The CCPLEX Miscellaneous Unit (CMU) contains has the following units to handle power
management, Interrupts, and Debug.

- CCPLEX Functional Description
- The CPU Complex Power Management Unit (CCPMU) with micro-code programmable engines
to execute power management sequences. The Interrupt Handler (IH) with vGIC (based on ARM GIC-600AE).
- The ARM Cluster Debug Interface (ACDI) module with the ARM Debug Block and several
other components necessary to support the Coresight Debug architecture.
#### 5.2.1.3 CPU Clusters
The high-level overview of the CPU Cluster showing its CPU (Cortex-A78AE) cores is presented in the diagram below.
**Figure 5.2 CPU Cluster and Its CPU Cores**
The CPU Cluster features are summarized as follows:

- CCPLEX Functional Description
Four Cortex-A78AE cores in each CPU Cluster.
- The DynamIQ™ Shared Unit (DSU-AE) with a 2-MiB L3 Cache is responsible for the coherency
amongst the cores in the Cluster.
- Split Mode of operation with independent CPU in the Cluster where the number of physical
CPUs equals to the number of CPU visible to software. Lock Mode of operation with pairs of CPU operate in Lock-Step as one CPU seen by software. Reliability, Availability, and Serviceability (RAS) logic to Interface with the DSU-AE and capture RAS records in the MMIO space. One common CPU power rail for all CPU Clusters in the CPU Complex. Logic for debug, trace, and performance monitoring logic. Noise Aware Frequency Locked Loop (NAFLL) clock source for CPU cores. Noise Aware Frequency Locked Loop (NAFLL) clock source for the DSU-AE. Support for Adaptive Voltage and Frequency Scaling. Independent power gating domains for each of the CPUs and the DSU-AE. Power management support logic to interact with the CCPMU. Interrupt-related support logic to interact with the vGIC. Control Register Access Bus (CRAB) slaves and support fabric. Design For Test (DFT) logic.
##### 5.2.1.3.1 CPU Cores and DSU-AE
The architectural overview of the DSU-AE Cluster showing its one DSU-AE and four CPU cores with major functional blocks is presented in the diagram below.

- CCPLEX Functional Description
**Figure 5.3 DSU-AE Cluster of one DSU-AE Core and four CPU Cores with Architectural Details**
- CPU Core
- The CPU (Cortex-A78AE) core implements the ARMv8-A architecture. Refer to the Arm Cortex-
supported.
- Each CPU core has an L1 memory Cache system and an integrated L2 Cache to work in concert
with its superscalar, variable-length, out-of-order pipeline. The CPU core features are summarized as follows:

- CCPLEX Functional Description
Four Cortex-A78AE cores and one DSU-AE in each CPU Cluster.
- Each Cortex-A78AE core has 64 KiB Instruction and Data Cache each, plus an integrated
256-KiB L2 Cache. Four Cortex-A78AE cores in the Cluster share the 2-MiB L3 Cache inside the DSU-AE. Exception Levels. AArch32 execution states at EL0 only. AArch64 execution states at all exception levels, i.e. EL0 through EL3.
