# 1.5 Ki 98-bit entries, 4-way Skewed-Associative L0 Macro-OP (MOP) Cache.
Separate 64-KiB 4-way Set-Associative L1 Data and Instruction Cache. ECC and parity protection on L1 Cache memory. Private unified 256-KiB 8-way Set-Associative Data and Instruction L2 Cache. ECC and parity protection on L2 Cache memory. L2 transaction queue size of 48 entries (24 entries per L2 bank). A Memory Management Unit (MMU).
- An integrated execution unit that implements the advanced SIMD and floating-point
architecture support. Generic Interrupt Controller (GICv4) CPU interface to connect to an external distributor. Generic Timers interface supporting 64-bit count input from an external system counter.
- Split/Lock feature with the ability to choose amongst Split, Lock, and Hybrid mode at the
Cluster level based on CEMODE input during Cluster's cold Reset. Performance Monitoring Unit (PMU). Activity Monitoring Unit (AMU). Embedded Trace Macrocell (ETM) supporting instruction trace only. The following table lists the execution modes specifics supported by the Orin CCPLEX.
- Table 5.1 Execution Modes
- Cluster Mode
- CPU Mode
- DSU Mode
- Description
- Split
- Split
- Split
- Each CPU core executes independently as
appeared to the operating system, with four CPU cores in a Cluster.
- Lock
- Lock
- Lock
- Two CPU cores execute the same software
concurrently.
- Their execution state is compared every clock
cycle and any divergence (mismatched result) is reported.
- These two physical CPU cores appear as one
logical CPU core to the operating system for a total of four CPU cores in a Cluster.

- CCPLEX Functional Description
- Cluster Mode
- CPU Mode
- DSU Mode
- Description
- Hybrid
- Split
- Lock
- Cluster Hybrid mode means that CPUs operate in
Split mode while the DSU operates in Lock mode.
- DSU logic is duplicated as a primary and
redundant logic.
- Each CPU’s outputs are fed into the primary and
redundant DSU logic.
- Primary and redundant DSU logic are compared in
- Lock mode and mismatched results generate RAS
errors.
- This Cluster Hybrid mode is useful for Safety
applications where CPU cores can be in Split mode (thereby improving performance with more CPUs available) while the DSU is in Lock mode.
- Permanent fault coverage for the CPU cores is
done using online IST (In-System Test) for coverage metrics.
- DSU-AE
The architectural overview of the DSU-AE Cluster showing its one CPU core-pair and the DSU-AE with major functional blocks is presented in the diagram below.

- CCPLEX Functional Description
**Figure 5.4 DSU-AE Cluster Showing one CPU Core-pair and the DSU Core with Architectural**
- Details
- The DynamIQ™ Shared Unit (DSU-AE) comprises a Snoop Control Unit (SCU) with an L3 Memory
- System, DSU-AE Asynchronous Bridges (CPU Bridges), and other control logic as shown in the
diagram above. The DSU-AE features are summarized as follows: Dual ACE (AXI Coherency Extensions) Interfaces (AMBA5 ACE main bus interfaces) to ACI. 48-bit Physical Address (PA) support, where only 40 bits are used in Orin, i.e. PA[47:40] = 8'b0 always. Reliability, Availability and Serviceability (RAS) support. Data poisoning on a 64-bit granule. 2-MiB 16-way Set-Associative L3 Cache. 64-byte Cache line throughput. L3 Cache partitioning - 2 slices. ECC support on Cache RAMs.

- CCPLEX Functional Description
SCU maintains coherency between Caches in the cores and the DSU Cache. Split, Lock, and Hybrid mode support. Interface Protection Safety feature through Parity for the external interfaces of the DSU-AE Cluster.

- GPU
6. GPU
