# 3.2 Gen2 x1 ports and their companion USB 2.0 ports, or up to four standalone USB 2.0 ports.
- The xHCI controller provides mechanisms to communicate with USB 2.0 peripherals, such as
keyboards, mice, card readers, and USB 3.2 peripherals, such as cameras and storage devices. Orin has an USB 3.2 Device controller that supports a device port, allowing Orin to be accessed from an external host device. The USB 3.2 Device controller supports USB 2.0 or USB 3.2 Gen1 x1 with up to 15 IN and 15 OUT endpoints, where a control endpoint consists of one bidirectional endpoint. The endpoints can be configured by the driver to support transfer types of different device classes such as modem, storage, or input devices.
- Both the xHCI controller and the USB 3.2 Device controller support USB link power
managements. Both controllers support remote wake up, wake on connect, wake on disconnect, and wake on over current in all power states, including deep sleep mode. The xHCI Controller and USB 3.2 Device controller are collectively called XUSB internally in
- NVIDIA to distinguish them from earlier USB 2.0 only controllers. Thus some of register
and power partition names have reference to XUSB.

- USB Functional Description
##### 10.2.2.1.1 USB 2 Ports
Each USB 2.0 port operates in USB 2.0 High-Speed mode when connecting directly to a USB 2.0 peripheral or in USB 1.1 full- and low-speed modes when connecting directly to a USB 1.1 peripheral. When operating in High-Speed mode, each USB 2.0 port is allocated with one High- Speed unit bandwidth. Approximately 480 Mb/s bandwidth is allocated to each USB 2.0 port. When operating in full- or low-speed modes all USB 2.0 ports share one full/low-speed unit bandwidth. Approximately a 12 Mb/s bandwidth is distributed across these ports. All USB 2.0 ports support software initiated L1 and L2 (suspend) link power management. USB 2.0 ports do not support hardware initiated L1 link power management.
##### 10.2.2.1.2 USB 3.1 Ports
- USB 3.2 ports support both Generation 1 SuperSpeed USB and Generation 2 SuperSpeedPlus USB
10 Gbps transfer rates. All USB 3.2 ports support x1 only.
- Note that due to throughput limitations in the xHCI controller, USB 3.2 port 0 and
port 1 are connected to the same SuperSpeedPlus hub to share 10 Gbps total bandwidth, while USB 3.2 port 2 and port 3 share another 10 Gbps total bandwidth. Note also that in the case of two SuperSpeed devices connected to the same SuperSpeedPlus hub, due to scheduling policy reasons each SuperSpeed device may not be able sustain the full SuperSpeed unit bandwidth if the other is device is active. All USB 3.2 ports support hardware initiated U1 and U2 link power management as well as software initiated U3 (suspend) link power management.
- Falcon Microcontroller
The Orin xHCI controller integrates an NVIDIA Falcon microcontroller to perform the following tasks:
- Command ring processing
- Event ring management
- Endpoint scheduling
- Context save and restore
#### 10.2.2.2 Interface Restrictions
A USB 3.2 connector includes both USB 2.0 and USB 3.2 interface signals. The USB 2.0 interface signals of a USB 3.2 connector must also be assigned to the USB controller for xHCI specification compliance. Similarly, if the USB 3.2 interface signals are used to connect to a peripheral on the system board, such as a USB 3.2 hub, the USB 2.0 signals connecting to that peripheral must also be assigned to the USB controller.

- USB Functional Description
Any one of the USB 2.0 ports can be configured as a device port. Any one of the USB 3.2 port can be exclusively paired with the selected USB 2.0 port and operates as the USB 3.2 interface of the device port. Either a USB 2.0 or USB 3.2 interface can be active when the device port is connected to a remote host port.
#### 10.2.2.3 Host and Memory Access Interfaces
- The xHCI controller and USB 3.2 device controller use the APB interface as a register
access interface for accessing the controller configuration and memory-mapped I/O registers. Both controllers have memory controller interfaces for direct memory accesses.
#### 10.2.2.4 USB 3.2 Device Controller
The USB 3.2 device controller allows the mobile platform to be accessed from a host device. Device
- Mode supports both high/full speed and super speed with up to 15 IN and 15 OUT endpoints,
where a control endpoint consists of one bidirectional endpoint. The endpoints can be configured by the driver to support transfer types of different device classes such as modem, storage, or input devices.
#### 10.2.2.5 xHCI Controller Programming Interface
The xHCI controller supports host functionality with host controller registers and data structures implemented as standard xHCI programming interface. The figure below illustrates the control and data paths block diagram of the xHCI controller.
**Figure 10.5 xHCI Controller Block Diagram**

- USB Functional Description
The USB 3.2 device controller supports device functionality with device controller registers and data structures developed to resemble xHCI programming interface. The figure below illustrates the control and data paths block diagram of the USB 3.2 Device controller.
**Figure 10.6 USB 3.2 Device Controller Block Diagram**
#### 10.2.2.6 USB PADCTL
The USB PAD Control logic is part of the ungated partition of the Vaux_soc power domain.
- The USB PAD Control logic is a stand-alone APB slave that accepts downstream requests for
programming the PAD MUX and PAD specific parameters. The USB PAD Control logic also provides the programmability of the capabilities of the individual ports of xHCI controller and USB 3.2 Device controller.
##### 10.2.2.6.1 USB PADCTL Features
- Stand-alone APB slave
- MMIO registers implemented under a stand-alone APB slave
- MMIO space outside of xHCI host controller and device mode
- USB Port Control
- Global configuration for USB ports
- Virtual GPIO
- VBUS and ID assertion/detection status via dedicated sideband signals from VGPIO
- Software overrides allow software to directly update status from accessing PMIC
- Battery Charging

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Supports standard and charging downstream port identification control when programmed
as host/downstream ports
- Supports charging port detection reporting as when programmed device/upstream ports
#### 10.2.2.7 USB AO
The USB AO logic is part of the Always-On power domain. The USB AO logic is a stand-alone APB slave that accepts downstream requests for setting up and accessing the USB port wake detection and reporting features.
##### 10.2.2.7.1 USB AO Features
- Stand-alone APB slave
- MMIO registers implemented under a stand-alone APB slave
- MMIO space outside of xHCI host controller and device mode
- USB 2.0 PAD parameters
- USB 2.0 pad parameter configurations
- AO version pad parameters applied under master_enable mode
- USB 2.0 sleepwalk
- Detect USB 2.0 wake events with programmable conditions
- React to wake events with four-step sleepwalk sequencer
- USB 3.2 Wake
- Detect USB 3.2 wake events with port status from each USB 3.1 port
### 10.2.3 USB Programming Guidelines
#### 10.2.3.1 Cold Boot
- Step 1
Boot ROM deasserts reset to USB AO block. Set the following CAR register bit to '0' to deassert reset to USB AO Control block. 1.
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_AON_0[SWR_XUSB_VAUX_AON_RST]
- Step 2
Set the following CAR register bit to '1' to enable clock to XUSB PAD Control block. 1.
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_0[CLK_ENB_XUSB]
Set the following CAR register bit to '0' to deassert reset to XUSB PAD Control block. 2.
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_PADCTL_RST]

- USB Programming Guidelines
3.
- Program the following XUSB_PADCTL register to enable device operation on port 0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PORT_CAP_0[PORT0_CAP]
4.
- Initialize the BIAS pad registers
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0[PD] to 1'b0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0[HS_SQUELCH_LEVEL] from fuse
- USB_CALIB[31:29]
- Perform Bias pad tracking as described in the USB Programming Guidelines USB2 Pad
Tracking Programming section. 5.
- Initialize the USB2 PAD0 registers
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD_ZI] to 1'b0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD] to 1'b0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[HS_CURR_LEVEL] from fuse USB_CALIB[5:0]
- TERM_RANGE_ADJ fields in XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_1_0 register to
- USB_CALIB[10:7]
- RPD_CTRL field in XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_1_0 register to
- USB_CALIB_EXT[4:0]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_1_0[PD_DR] to 1'b0
6.
- Turn ON protection circuit by writing below XUSB_PADCTL registers
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[PD_VREG] to 1'b0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[VREG_DIR] to 2'b01
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[VREG_LEV] based on current
requirements from VBUS - - - -
- For sinking 500mA, set VREG_LEV[1:0] = [00]
- For sinking 900mA/1A, set REG_LEV[1:0] = [01]
- For sinking 1.5A, set VREG_LEV[1:0] = [10]
- For sinking 2A, set VREG_LEV[1:0] = [11]
Boot ROM performs battery charging operations as described in the USB Programming Guidelines USB2 Pad Tracking Programming section.
- Step 3
Boot ROM hands over XUSB to Boot Loader with the following sequence: Boot ROM halts all endpoints then notifies Boot Loader.
- Boot Loader updates the Command Ring Pointer, Device Context Base Address Array Pointer,
- Event Ring Segment Table Base Address, and Event Ring Dequeue Pointer registers to the
data structures setup by Boot Loader. Boot Loader resets the endpoints then rings the doorbells of the endpoints.
- Boot Loader loads XUSB host firmware image to DRAM carveout then notifies XUSB host
controller.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Boot Loader sets up a carveout in DRAM and loads XUSB firmware image to the carveout
from boot storage. Boot Loader writes the based address to the following registers in XUSB AO:
- XUSB_AO_IFRDMA_CFG1_0[SWR_BASE_ADDR_39_32]
- XUSB_AO_IFRDMA_CFG0_0[SWR_BASE_ADDR_31_0]
Note: These are write-once registers that cannot be modified until the system goes through cold boot. Writing 0 to these registers disables XUSB firmware loading.
- Step 4
PAD driver switches USB 2.0 related PLLs to under hardware control after PAD driver is loaded. PAD driver enables USB3.0 related PLLs. Note: Boot Loader may decide to keep the PLLs enabled with the software override in case there are bugs in hardware control preventing PLLs from being enabled correctly.
- Step 5
PAD driver enables platform specific regulators to enable power rails to the pads, VBUS, and pull-up voltage to the VBUS control PMIC’s EN input. PAD driver deasserts reset to UPHY PAD and UPHY PAD Macro. 1. Set the following CAR register bit to ‘0’ to deassert reset to UPHY Pad and UPHY Pad Macros.
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_UPHY_0[SWR_UPHY_RST]
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX_USB_UPHY_0[SWR_PEX_USB_UPHY_RST]
PAD driver setup the I/O pins for the VBUS control and over current report if VBUS control is used in the platform. 2. Program the following PADCTL EDP registers to setup the I/O pins for USB 2.0 ports, according to the platform specific configuration:
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN0_0[E_IO_HV]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN0_0[E_INPUT]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN0_0[PARK]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN0_0[TRISTATE]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN0_0[PUPD]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN1_0[E_IO_HV]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN1_0[E_INPUT]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN1_0[PARK]
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN1_0[TRISTATE]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- PADCTL_EDP_USB_VBUS_EN1_0[PUPD]
3. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to use local override for VBUS and ID status reporting:
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_VBUS_ID_0[ID_SOURCE_SELECT] to ‘ID_OVERRIDE’
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_VBUS_ID_0[VBUS_SOURCE_SELECT] to ‘VBUS_OVERRIDE’
4. Write ‘1’ to the following XUSB PADCTL registers to clear false reporting of VBUS and ID status changes:
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_VBUS_ID_0[IDDIG_ST_CHNG]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_VBUS_ID_0[VBUS_VALID_ST_CHNG]
PAD driver programs the port capabilities and pad parameters of ports assigned to XUSB after booted to OS. PAD driver sets the capabilities of the ports to OTG for ports that are used to form the Type-C port. 5. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to assign the port capabilities for USB2.0 ports according to the platform specific configuration:
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PORT_CAP_0[PORT2_CAP] for host/disabled
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PORT_CAP_0[PORT2_INTERNAL] for whether its internal port
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PORT_CAP_0[PORT1_CAP] for host/disabled
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PORT_CAP_0[PORT1_INTERNAL] for whether its internal port
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PORT_CAP_0[PORT0_CAP] for host/device/OTG/disabled
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PORT_CAP_0[PORT0_INTERNAL] for whether its internal port
6. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to assign the port capabilities for SuperSpeed ports according to the platform specific configuration:
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT2_CAP] for host/device/OTG/disabled
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT2_INTERNAL] for whether its internal port
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT1_CAP] for host/device/OTG/disabled
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT1_INTERNAL] for whether its internal port
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT1_TYPEC_CAP_EN] to 1 if the port is used to form the
- Type-C port
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT0_CAP] for host/device/OTG/disabled
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT0_INTERNAL] for whether its internal port
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_PORT_CAP_0[PORT0_TYPEC_CAP_EN] to 1 if the port is used to form the
- Type-C port
- To have USB2 only OTG, or USB2 only device mode port, have one USB2_PORT_CAP set to
device/OTG and NONE of the SS_PORT_CAP set to device/OTG. 7. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to ‘OC_DETECTION_DISABLED’ to disable the over current signal mapping for USB 2.0 and SS ports:

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT2_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT1_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT0_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT2_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT1_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT0_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE1_OC_MAP]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE0_OC_MAP]
- Program the UPHY Lane registers to assign the UPHY lanes, set static UPHY LANE and PLL
parameters according to the platform specific configuration, and assign the static UPHY LANE parameters of ports owned by XUSB according to the platform specific configuration. 8. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to assign the static USB2.0 PAD parameters of ports owned by XUSB, according to the platform specific configuration:
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_1_0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD1_CTL_0_0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD1_CTL_1_0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD2_CTL_0_0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD2_CTL_1_0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_1_0
9. Program the following XUSB PADCTL register bits to ‘0’ to disable power down of the USB2.0 of ports owned by XUSB, according to the platform specific configuration.
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD1_CTL_0_0[PD]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD2_CTL_0_0[PD]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD_ZI]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD1_CTL_0_0[PD_ZI]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD2_CTL_0_0[PD_ZI]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_1_0[PD_DR]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD1_CTL_1_0[PD_DR]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD2_CTL_1_0[PD_DR]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0[PD]
10. Program the following XUSB PADCTL register bits to ‘0’ to release the XUSB SS wake logic state latching.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
Note: To avoid confliction or ambiguity, the XUSB controller should be under reset when updating the port assignments.
- Step 6
PAD driver programs the clocks and deasserts the resets to the controllers. 1. Set the following CAR register bits to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to XUSB:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB]
2. Set the following CAR register bits to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to individual XUSB partitions:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_HOST]
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_DEV]
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_SS]
3. Program the following CAR register bits to set the source of XUSB clocks, where PLLP_OUT0 runs at 408 MHz:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_CORE_HOST_0[XUSB_CORE_HOST_CLK_SRC]
to PLLP_OUT0
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_CORE_HOST_0[XUSB_CORE_HOST_CLK_DIVIS
- OR] to 0x6
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_CORE_DEV_0[XUSB_CORE_DEV_CLK_SRC] to
- PLLP_OUT0
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_CORE_DEV_0[XUSB_CORE_DEV_CLK_DIVISOR]
to 0x6
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_FALCON_0[XUSB_FALCON_CLK_SRC] to
- PLLP_OUT0
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_FALCON_0[XUSB_FALCON_CLK_DIVISOR] to
0x0
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_FS_0[XUSB_FS_CLK_SRC] to FO_48M
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_FS_0[XUSB_FS_CLK_DIVISOR] to 0x0
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_SS_0[XUSB_SS_CLK_SRC] to HSIC_480

- USB Programming Guidelines
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_XUSB_SS_0[XUSB_SS_CLK_DIVISOR] to 0x6
4. Set the following CAR register bits to ‘0’ to deassert reset to XUSB:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_HOST_RST]
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_DEV_RST]
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_SS_RST]
- Step 7
PAD driver brings the UPHY out of IDDQ. PAD driver enables the VBUS to the USB ports. 1. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to assign the over current signal mapping for USB
