# 3.6 System Memory Management Unit (SMMU)
### 3.6.1 Overview
- The System Memory Management Unit (SMMU) is part of the memory system in the SoC. The
purpose of the SMMU is to allow the use of virtual addressing for memory accesses by the hardware devices. The SMMU provides address translation, supports a two-stage look-up for hypervisor support, and can apply various controls and protections for memory access. This function is sometimes also referred to as an IOMMU.
- The SMMU is based on the Arm® MMU-500. This chapter should be read with the Arm
documentation, in particular the Arm CoreLink™ MMU-500 System Memory Management Unit
- Arm System Memory Management Unit Architecture Specification, which is necessary in
understanding the programming model. Refer also to the Memory Subsystem (MSS) chapter of this TRM, where many SMMU related concepts are discussed. For the latest version of the Arm documents, refer to the Arm website: http://infocenter.arm.com/ help/index.jsp
- Arm CoreLink™ MMU-500 System Memory Management Unit Technical Reference
- Manual: Document ID Arm DDI 0517E (ID072715)
- Arm System Memory Management Unit Architecture Specification: Document ID Arm IHI
0062D.b (ID071415)
#### 3.6.1.1 SMMU Configuration
The SoC has three instances of SMMU. One of them serves the real-time requests from display and VI, and is referred to as the ISO MMU (ISO is an abbreviation for isochronous). The other two serve the rest of the SoC client traffic, and are referred to as NISO MMUs. All the SMMU instances are configured to support the following: 64 contexts
- Stage 1 and Stage 2 translation
7-bit streamID

- System Memory Management Unit (SMMU)
128 stream matching groups
- Eight TBUs in each NISO SMMU and four TBUs in ISO SMMU
The configuration parameters above may have an effect on registers defined in the Arm System Memory Management Unit Architecture Specification. Revision of the Arm IP used:
- TBU: r2p2
- TCU: r2p4
- For the memory subsystem (MSS) datapath to operate correctly, the following must be
programmed: AArch32 short descriptors should not be used. The SoC supports only 7-bit StreamIDs, so SMR.MASK[14:7] must be programmed to 'hFF. Program SCTLR.CFRE / SCTLR.CFIE / CR0.GFRE / CR0.GFIE / CR0.GCFGFRE / CR0.GCFGFIE = 1. The stall-fault model is not supported. Program SCTLR.CFCFG = 0. Prefetch must be disabled by setting SMMU_CBn_ACTLR.CPRE = 0.
#### 3.6.1.2 StreamID
The StreamID is used to select a context in SMMU that is used for translation. For information on how to map a StreamID to a context, refer to the Arm System Memory Management Unit Architecture Specification. The StreamID can be set by a client on a per-transaction basis. However, this behavior can be overridden by programming the StreamID override registers. The override is applied on a per-client basis for all transactions issued by that client. Refer to the Memory Controller (MC) chapter for client details. The StreamID override registers are part of a separate aperture aligned to 64 KB so that it can be controlled by the hypervisor in a virtualized system.

- Boot and Power Management
4. Boot and Power Management
