# 8.1 Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA)

### 8.1.1 Overview
- The NVIDIA Deep Learning Accelerator (NVDLA) is a fixed function engine used to accelerate
inference operations on convolution neural networks (CNNs). NVDLA is designed to do full hardware acceleration of convolutional neural network. NVDLA supports various layers such as convolution, deconvolution, fully-connected, activation, pooling, local response normalization, and fully connected layers. NVDLA is primarily used for the Advanced Driver Assistant System (ADAS) in the SoC. As one stage of the CV pipeline, NVDLA receives Region of Interest (ROIs) from Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA) and/or Image Signal Processor (ISP) and detects cars, pedestrians, traffic signals, and bicycles. The primary use-cases for NVDLA are:
- Internal NVIDIA DNN models, like NVDriveNet
- External automotive and embedded customer DNN models
- Academic DNN models, like AlexNet, GoogleNet, and ResNet
Visit the NVDLA Open Source Project (nvdla.org) for additional information on deep learning, convolution neural networks, and accelerating deep learning inference operations.

- Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA)
**Figure 8.1 DLA Block Diagram**
#### 8.1.1.1 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Host Controller
- Hardware Safety Manager (HSM)
- Pixel Memory Format
#### 8.1.1.2 Glossary
- Term
- Description
- Accumulated sum
Output of ACCU unit. Accumulated sum is the sum of one or more partial sums.

- Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA)
- Term
- Description
- ATOMIC_M
- The size in bytes of one atom in 2D surfaces. The dimensions of one atom are 1x1xATOMIC_M
where ATOMIC_M is 32Bytes.
- ATOM
The basic unit in feature cube. Its dimension is 1x1xATOMIC MBytes.
- ATOMIC_C
Convolution only. The number of elements in one atomic operation in the convolution pipeline. 64 for INT8 by default.
- ATOMIC_CS
- The number of elements in one atomic operation in convolution pipeline in channel
dimension. 128 for INT8 by default.
- ATOMIC_K
The number of kernels in one kernel group.
- BDMA
Bridge DMA. BDMA transform data from CVSRAM to MC and vice versa.
- CARB
- Cbuf Arbiter, a module instanced in CPIPE
- CBB
Control backbone. A system control data path that connected to NVDLA.
- CDMA
Convolution DMA. Responsible for load image/weight/feature data to convolution pipeline.
- CFGDMA
ConfigDMA, a sub-unit responsible for configuring registers of sub-units. The value of registers is from UB or MC.
- CNN
Convolutional Neural Networks. Consists of multiple layers, including convolution layer, pooling layer, normalization layer, etc.
- CPIPE
- Convolution pipeline which contains sub-units CBUF, CSC, CMAC, and CACC. One NVDLA IP can
contain multiple CPIPEs.
- CPP
- Short for CPIPE
- CV
- Computer Vision
- CW
- Compressed Weight
- Data cube
All input feature data and pixel data can be viewed as a 3-dimension cube marked as W x H x C.
- DBB
Data backbone. The NoC and external memory system that NVDLA connects to.
- DC
- Direct Convolution mode
- DFD
- Design For Debug
- DLA
- Same as NVDLA
- DWP
Depth-wise processor. A functional sub-unit inside Rubik to process depth-wise convolution and direction convolution. Only FP16 is supported in DWP.
- Element
The basic unit of each data type involved in NVDLA computing. For pixel format, one element refers to a component of pixel.
- ES
- Engine scheduler, one sub-unit of GP
- Feature data
The output data of hardware layer. Feature data is generated from one hardware layer and can be used as input data for the next hardware layer. HOG data and pixel data which is used in the first layer of a CNN are not feature data.
- GROUP_SIZE
The channel number of one kernel group, only used by group convolution.

- Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA)
- Term
- Description
- GOB
Group of Blocks. A structure of mapping blocks in block linear format.
- GP
- Graph processor, a sub-unit responsible for schedule different engines to achieve certain
function.
- HOG
- Histogram of Oriented Gradients
- HW-layer
One complete hardware process. It starts with a set of register configurations with an enable field. When it is complete, it triggers one interrupt.
- HSM
Hardware Safety Manager. HSM is a sub-module inside Safety and Camera Engine (SCE) cluster. Its main purpose is to monitor error signals from different modules and signal a safety MCU external to the SoC when such an error happens. K
- The kernel number of convolutions
- KC
Kernel Cube. Includes weights: ATOMIC_C*ATOMIC_K*R*S elements.
- LIC
Legacy Interrupt Controller. A central interrupt controller for summarizing general interrupts from interrupt source engines, managing interrupt type and priorities, and forwarding to CPUs.
- MAC CELL
- Basic schedule unit in CONV_MAC. Contains 64 MUL/ADDER (multiply then add) for INT8
- NCHW
- Alias of M-planar format. NCHW refers to Batch-Channel-Height-Width
- NVDLA
- NVIDIA Deep Learning Accelerator
- OP_ATOMIC_M
- The size of basic unit of SDP_OPRDMA corresponding to the ATOMIC_M of SDP
P
- Output height of the convolution
- Partial sum
Output of MAC CELL. Usually the partial result of a convolution.
- PDP
Planar data processor. A functional sub-unit in SDP.
- Planar
The method of representing pixel colors with several bit-planes of RAM.
- PVA
- Programmable Vision Accelerator
Q
- Output width of the convolution
- RDMA
- Read DMA. Instanced in SDP/CDP/PDP/RUBIK engines and responsible for load input data from
external memory (either MC or CVSRAM).
- ROI
Region Of Interest. Refers to a rectangle of image or an entire image. ROI can be sent by PVA or Camera. R/S The height/width of a convolution kernel respectively.
- Rubik
- Data operation processor. A functional sub-unit in the NVDLA engine to support data layout
transformation. It also contains DWP.
- SDP
Single data processor. A functional sub-unit in NVDLA engine.
- SDP-X
- One processing unit in the SDP pipeline: a total of two SDP-Xs in one SDP pipe
- Slice cube
A part of a data cube. For a W x H x C cube, a slice refers to a W x 1 x C sub-cube.
- SP
Sparsity Pattern. The metadata for compressed weight.

- DLA Functional Description
- Term
- Description
- Stripe length
- The number of output elements within one stripe operation. Its value varies in different
convolution modes of CPIPE and DWP.
- Surface cube
A part of a data cube. For a W x H x C cube, a surface refers to a W x H x 16 sub-cube for int16/ fp16 or W x H x 32 sub-cube for int8.
- THI
Tegra Host Interface. An interface module between Host Controller and Falcon.
- UBUF
Unified buffer. An internal buffer unit in NVDLA2.0.
- WDMA
- Write DMA. Instanced in SDP/CDP/PDP/RUBIK engines and responsible for write output data to
external memory (either MC or CVSRAM). 3D convolution/ pool Convolution/pool that uses a filter that has extra dimension compared to 2D convolution/pool.
### 8.1.2 DLA Functional Description
#### 8.1.2.1 Data Formats
The NVDLA engine supports various types of CNN layers such as the convolution layer, pooling layer, ReLU layer, and LRN layer. To improve performance, the NVDLA engine applies some options like weight compression and multi-batch mode. To support these layers, the NVDLA engine uses specified input and output data formats. There are two main types of input formats: weight data and activation data. The weight formats include the branches below:
- Weight for direct convolution
- Weight for image input
- Weight for deconvolution
- Weight for Tiny-CK
Two additional options for weight formats:
- Channel post-extension for image input mode
- Sparse compressing
The activation formats supported by the NVDLA engine include:
- Feature data format

- DLA Functional Description
- Pixel format: Region of Interest (ROI) input
The output formats supported by the NVDLA engine include:
- Feature data format
M-planar format (NCHW) The NVDLA engine fetches the auxiliary formats below from the external memory:
- SDP OP data
A channel extension refers to a set of mapping rules for both the weight data and the activation data to fit with the accelerator. It includes:
- Channel pre-extension for image input mode
- Channel post-extension for image input mode
- The channel post-extension for the image input mode is an option for performance. Hardware
handles all the channel extensions on the feature/pixel data, while software handles the channel extension to the weight data accordingly. All data formats are mapped in the memory with a particular set of rules.
#### 8.1.2.2 Precision Conversion
The NVDLA supports three types of data precision.
- UINT8
- INT8
- FP16
1. 2. 3. For actual use scenarios, a mixed-precision model may be required(different layers have different precision types); or for a given precision input image, it may be desirable to process with another precision. Note that FP16 performance is significantly lower than INT8 performance and so should be avoided on NVDLA. In order to satisfy those needs, NVDLA supports precision conversion in two sub-units:
- CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access, see below)
- SDP (Super Data Processor, see below)
The detailed precision conversion combinations are listed in table below:

- DLA Functional Description
- Comment
- Working
- Mode
- Pipeline
- Conver
sion
- Module
- Outpu
t precisi on
- Input
precisi on (U)INT8 (U)INT8
- Feature
convoluti on
- Convoluti
on+SDP
- SDP
- CMAC input is (U)INT8 (feature)*INT8 (weight) then output
higher precision INT.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it is responsible to convert FP19
to output (U)INT8. All the four possible combinations are supported.
- FP16/
(U)INT8
- FP16
- Feature
- Convoluti
on
- DWP
- NA
- When implementing DC on DWP, both input and output of DWP
are FP16.
- When implementing depthwise on DWP, the input feature data
type can be (U)INT8/FP16 and the output data type must be FP16.
- UINT16
(U)INT8 image convoluti on
- Convoluti
on+SDP
- CDMA
+SDP
- CDMA converts (U)INT16 to (U)INT8 (sign has to be kept); CMAC
is working on (U)INT8*INT8 then output higher precision INT.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it is responsible to convert FP19
to output (U)INT8.
- From I/O perspective, all the four combinations are supported,
however, CDMA supports two conversions (U16->U8, I16->I8) only. (U)INT1
- FP16
image convoluti on
- FCDMA+S
- DP
- DWP
- FCDMA
+SDP
- DWP
There are two ways to support this use scenario: a) Process by (U)INT8 Realized by FCDMA+SDP by one hardware layer:
- FCDMA convert the (U)INT16 to (U)INT8 then do convolution by
- CMAC, after that, the data send to SDP with FP19 format and
- SDP produces the FP16;
b) Process by FP16: Realized by two hardware layers (HWLs):
- HWL0: FCDMA+SDP - FCDMA fetches the (U)INT16 to CBUF;
SDP read those data then write to UB with FP16.
- HWL1: DWP - DWP makes the FP16 data from UB then do
image convolution.
- FP16
- FP16
image convoluti on
- FCDMA+S
- DP
- DWP
- NA
Realized by two HWLs:
- HWL0: FCDMA+SDP - FCDMA fetches the FP16 to CBUF, SDP
read those data then write to UB with FP16.
- HWL1: DWP - DWP takes the FP16 data from UB then do image
convolution and produces FP1.
- FP16
(U)INT8 image convoluti on
- FCDMA+S
- DP
- DWP
- FCDMA+S
- DP
- SDP
There are two ways to realize it: a) Process by FP16: Realized by three HWLs:
- HWL0: FCDMA+SDP - FCDMA fetches the FP16 to CBUF, SDP
read those data then write to UB with FP16.
- HWL1: DWP - DWP takes the FP16 data from UB then do image
convolution and produces FP16.
- HWL2: FCDMA+SDP - FCDMA fetches the FP16 to CBUF, SDP
takes those data from CBUF and convert to (U)INT8. b) Process by INT8: Requires two HWLs:
- HWL0: FCDMA+SDP - FCDMA fetches the FP16 image to CBUF,
SDP read them and convert to (U)INT8 then write back to CB.
- HWL1: CPP - CSC read (U)INT8 numbers and write back does
convolution then output (U)INT8 by SDP.

- DLA Functional Description
- Comment
- Working
- Mode
- Pipeline
- Conver
sion
- Module
- Outpu
t precisi on
- Input
precisi on (U)INT8
- FP16
- Image
convoluti on
- FCDMA+S
- DP
- DWP
- SDP
Requires three layers:
- HWL0: FCDMA (img)+SDP - FCDMA fetches image data, do pre-
extension then write back to CBUF. SDP treats it as a feature cube then does precision conversion and output FP16.
- HWL1: SDP takes the FP16 as input, set IMAGE_ENABLE and
append dummy 0s at the end of each channel to actually output feature cube (C will be enlarged to 16).
- HWL2: DWP takes the 0s appended cube in, process with FP16
precision. (U)INT8
- FP16
- Feature
- Convoluti
on
- Convoluti
on+SDP
- SDP
- CMAC input is (U)INT8 (feature) * INT8(weight) then output
FP19 to SDP.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it is responsible to convert FP19
to output FP16 (U)INT8 (U)INT8 pooling
- SDP(PDP)
- SDP
- SDP takes (U)INT8 as input. After operated by PDP, the PDP can
output (U)INT8 to CB/UB/MC.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it can be converted from FP19 to
output (U)INT8 or just input (U)INT16 into PDP. All the four combinations are supported. (U)INT8
- INT16
pooling
- SDP(PDP)
- SDP
- SDP takes (U)INT8 as input. After operated by PDP, the PDP can
output (U)INT16 to CB/UB/MC.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it can be converted from FP19 to
output (U)INT16 or just (U)INT16 input into PDP. (U)INT8
- FP16
pooling
- SDP(PDP)
- SDP
- SDP takes (U)INT8 as input. After operated by PDP, the PDP can
output FP16 to CB/UB/MC.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it can be converted from FP19 to
output FP16 or just input FP16 into PDP.
- FP16
- FP16
pooling
- SDP(PDP)
- SDP
- SDP takes FP16 as input. After operated by PDP, the PDP can
output FP16 to CB/UB/MC.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it can be converted from FP19 to
output FP16 or just input FP16 into PDP (U)INT8 (U)INT8
- LRN/
conversio n
- SDP
- SDP
SDP takes (U)INT8 as input then convert to FP19 to process.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it is responsible to convert FP19
to output (U)INT8. All the four combinations are supported.
- FP16
- FP16
- LRN/
conversio n
- SDP
- SDP
- SDP takes FP16 as input then convert to higher precision FP to
process.
- SDP output convertor responsible for convert higher precision
FP to FP16. (U)INT8
- FP16
- LRN/
conversio n
- SDP
- SDP
SDP takes (U)INT8 as input then convert to FP19.
- SDP internal pipeline is FP19, it is responsible to convert FP19
to FP16.
- FP16
(U)INT8
- LRN/
conversio n
- SDP
- SDP
SDP pipeline works in FP pipe, convert to (U)INT8 before output.

- DLA Functional Description
#### 8.1.2.3 Floating Point Support
NVDLA supports four floating point encodings:
- FP16
- FP17
- FP19
- FP32
##### 8.1.2.3.1 INF/NaN/Denormalized/Rounding/Zero Handling
This section describes NVDLA how to support floating point in data-path.
- Infinity
Infinity is that exponent bits are all 1 and fraction bits are all 0 . When sign bit is 0, the number is positive infinity. When sign bit is 1, the number is negative infinity.
- There won't be any INF output from any NVDLA sub-module. If saturation happens, NVDLA will
output the maximum representable (+/-65504 for FP16, 127/-128 for INT8). NVDLA provides input to the INF counting register and output saturation to the counting register to report INF/Saturation so that software is able to know the precision loss. Weight does not supported INF because it is configured by software.
- NaN
The NVDLA does not generate NaN since the infinity values are not involved in any operation, but it supports NaN propagation. If the input data has NaN, any result related to the NaN operand is NaN. The DLA provides a register field to flush NaN to zeros. If the register is set, all input NaNs are treated as a zero value in the float point data path and the output data cube does not have any NaN. Otherwise, the input NaNs propagate to the output. The DLA also provides input/output NaN counting registers that summarize the total NaN number in the input/output data cube. The counting registers are updated when the layer is done. When completed interrupts arrive, the firmware polls the NaN counting registers to figure out whether the input/output data cubes have any NaN value.
- Denormalized Value
The NVDLA supports denormalized values for both input and output. The denormalized value is handled by following the IEEE754 standard.

- DLA Functional Description
Only the FP16 input is promoted to a higher precision data type (FP17/FP19/FP32). Those data types have higher dynamic range and finer precision even without the denormalize value. Before writing back to memory, data is converted to the fp16 rounding/saturation with a denormalized value.
- Rounding
The NVDLA supports Rounding to Nearest (or RN) in calculations except in the case of overflow. If the result exceeds the maximum normal value, it is clipped to the maximum normalized value.
- Zero
For arithmetic operations except RUBIK, NVDLA follows the IEEE754 standard.
#### 8.1.2.4 Feature Data Format
The NVDLA engine maintains a private data format for all supported hardware layers. The data format is called the feature data format and is generated only by the NVDLA engine itself. All elements of the feature data for a layer are organized as a 3D data cube. The three dimensions are width (W), height (H) and channel size (C). The memory mapping rules are as follows:
- Adds data into the end of the channel if the original data is not ATOMIC_M(32 for DLA2.0)
byte aligned in the C direction. (The attached data must be 0 and +0 when it's U/INT8 and
- FP16 respectively)
Splits the data cube into 1x1xATOMIC_M byte small atom cubes.
- Reorders atom cubes by progressively scanning the data cube. Scanning order: W(line) -> H
(height) -> C (channel). Maps all atom cubes into memory by a scanning sequence. Maps all atom cubes in the same line compactly.
- Atom cube mapping at the line boundary and/or the surface boundary can be either
adjacently or not compactly, but they are always 32-byte aligned. In conclusion, mapping in memory follows the pitch linear format. The order is C’ (32 byte) ->W -> H -> C (surfaces). Here C’ changes fastest and C changes slowest. The Packed Feature Data figure illustrates the feature data mapped compactly into small cubes. If the line or surface of the small cubes is not mapped compactly, it is called unpacked. Refer to the Unpacked Feature Data figure below. The line stride and surface stride of the feature data always align to 32 bytes. The start address has the same alignment as well. This is a mandatory requirement.

- DLA Functional Description
**Figure 8.2 Packed Feature Data**
**Figure 8.3 Unpacked Feature Data**

- DLA Functional Description
A 1x1xC feature data cube can be line-packed and surface-packed. NVDLA should send continuous transactions when surf_stride=line_stride=ATOMIC_M (or OP_ATOMIC_M) to save bandwidth because the length of one read quest can be larger.
#### 8.1.2.5 M-planar Format
M-planar format (NCHW) is an individual format for the NVDLA to communicate with other engines like CPU, GPU, PVA, etc. The calculation-related pipeline, like convolution pipeline, cannot handle this format directly. A dedicated sub-unit in RUBIK is used to do conversion between M-planar and feature data cube. The M-planar format data contains multiple pitch linear memory surfaces (planes). Every surface has the same parameters as width, height, line stride, planar stride. The number of surfaces is corresponding to the channel size of the feature data cube format. The data type residing in these surfaces is one of INT8, UINT8, and FP16. NVDLA requires that the start address and line stride of M-planar format is 32-byte aligned.
#### 8.1.2.6 Pixel Format
The NVDLA engine supports pixel data for the Region of Interest (ROI). The pixel data comes from a part of, or the whole image. The pixel formats are listed in the Pixel Formats and Valid Setting table. Refer to the Pixel Memory Formats chapter for more details. The NVDLA engine supports both pitch linear and block linear for all pixel formats. The height of the GOB is programmable from 1 to 32. When the NVDLA takes an image as input data, there are some limits to the configuration. Channel size. The valid channel size highly depends on each format. Refer to the table below. Input precision. The input precision highly depends on pixel each format. Refer to the table below. DMA logic turns unsigned integer value to signed integer value automatically.
- For any limit on precision conversion, refer to precision conversion table in Precision
Conversion. Line stride of pitch linear is aligned to 64 bytes. The start address of block linear aligns to 256 bytes (half GOB).
- For block linear image, it may have redundant data between 256-byte aligned address and
the first element, w_offset and h_offset are used to indicate how many redundant data are, and the unit of offset is a pixel. w_offset & h_offset are only available for block linear. The value range for h_offset is 0~7..
- Both w_offset and h_offset must be set as 0 for pitch linear

- DLA Functional Description
- Table 8.1 Pixel Formats and Valid Setting
- Format Name
# of planar
- Valid Channel Size
- Setting
- Valid W Offset Range
(only for block linear)
- Precision
T_R8 0~31
- UINT8
T_R10 0~15
- UINT16
T_R12 0~15
- UINT16
T_R16 0~15
- UINT16
T_R16_I 0~15
- INT16
T_R16_F 0~15
- FP16
T_A16B16G16R16 0~3
- UINT16
T_X16B16G16R16 0~3
- UINT16
T_A16B16G16R16_F 0~3
- FP16
T_A16Y16U16V16 0~3
- UINT16
T_V16U16Y16A16 0~3
- UINT16
T_A16Y16U16V16_F 0~3
- FP16
T_A8B8G8R8 0~7
- UINT8
T_A8R8G8B8 0~7
- UINT8
T_B8G8R8A8 0~7
- UINT8
T_R8G8B8A8 0~7
- UINT8
T_X8B8G8R8 0~7
- UINT8
T_X8R8G8B8 0~7
- UINT8
T_B8G8R8X8 0~7
- UINT8
T_R8G8B8X8 0~7
- UINT8
T_A8Y8U8V8 0~7
- UINT8
T_V8U8Y8A8 0~7
- UINT8
T_Y8___U8V8_N444 0~31
- UINT8
T_Y8___V8U8_N444 0~31
- UINT8
T_Y10___U10V10_N444 0~15
- UINT16
T_Y10___V10U10_N444 0~15
- UINT16
T_Y12___U12V12_N444 0~15
- UINT16
T_Y12___V12U12_N444 0~15
- UINT16

- DLA Functional Description
- Format Name
# of planar
- Valid Channel Size
- Setting
- Valid W Offset Range
(only for block linear)
- Precision
T_Y16___U16V16_N444 0~15
- UINT16
T_Y16___V16U16_N444 0~15
- UINT16
#### 8.1.2.7 How to Locate a ROI
An ROI can start by any pixel in an image and the NVDLA must support it. Hardware has a limitation of memory access that requests each address to align to 32 bytes. Therefore, the NVDLA provides a way to cross the gap between them. For pitch linear, the firmware gives the nearest 32 byte aligned address and X offset. For block linear, the firmware gives the nearest 256 byte aligned address and both X and Y offset. The fetch granularity for the block linear is half a block.
#### 8.1.2.8 Weight Format
Unlike pixel data or feature data, weight data is generated before the convolution operation and the
- NVDLA engine never changes them during the operation. Software maps the weight data with
property rules to fit with the calculation sequence in the NVDLA. The original weight data has four dimensions: width, height, channel, and number of kernels. They can construct as a group of 3D data cubes. One data cube is called a kernel. The NVDLA engine supports multiple basic formats of weight data for different operation modes:
- Weight for direct convolution
- Weight for image input
- Weight for deconvolution
- Weight for Tiny-CK
1. 2. 3. 4. There are some mandatory requirements for certain formats:
- Channel pre-extension for image input
Set split for deconvolution. 1. 2. Two additional options for weight formats:
- Channel post-extension for image-in convolution
- Sparse compressing
1. 2.
- Table 8.2 Weight Formats and Options
- Weight Types
- Sparse Compression Option
- Post-Extension Option
- Weight for DC
- Support
- NOT support
- Weight for image input
- Support
- Support

- DLA Functional Description
- Weight Types
- Sparse Compression Option
- Post-Extension Option
- Weight for deconvolution
- Support
- NOT support
- Weight for Tiny-CK
- Support
- NOT support
**Figure 8.4 Original Weight Data**
##### 8.1.2.8.1 Basic Weight for Direct Convolution
- The Basic Weight for direct convolution is the most basic and common weight format. Other
weight formats all extend from this format. The mapping rules of uncompressed weight for direct convolution are: Distribute the kernels into groups. One group has ATOMIC_K kernels. The last group can have fewer kernels. Each kernel group might have multiple KCs (kernel cubes), each KC has ATOMIC_C*ATOMIC_K*R*S elements of weight.
- Divide each kernel to 1x1xATOMIC_C-Bytes small cubes. For int8, the small cube is ATOMIC_C
elements each. Append 0 if the channel size is not divisible by ATOMIC_C(64). After division, all weights are stored in 1x1xATOMIC_C small cubes. Scan the 1x1xATOMIC_C small cubes in a KC with ATOMIC_C->ATOMIC_K->S->R sequence.
- Map the kernel cubes serially. Append any 0s between kernel cube boundaries to make KC
64B aligned. The start address of each kernel group is aligned to 64Bytes as well. The diagram below shows how weights map for direct convolution.

- DLA Functional Description
**Figure 8.5 Weight Mapping for Direct Convolution**
**Figure 8.6 Mapping Example with RxS=3x3**

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.8.2 Basic Weight for Image Input
Weight mapping for the image input is similar to weight for direct convolution. The main difference is that the image weight needs an additional channel extension step ahead of the mapping steps for direct convolution weight. The channel pre-extension for image weight is a mandatory requirement, while channel post-extension is an option to improve performance. The channel pre-extension for image weight is different from the channel extension for Winograd convolution. The key idea of per-extension is to turn all weights in the same line to a single channel. The Weight Set Split for Deconvolution figure illustrates an int16 image input whose channel size is 3.
**Figure 8.7 Channel Extension for Image Weight**
The channel pre-extension is the first step for image weight. Then all extended kernels follow the same steps of weight for direct convolution. That is, software must do group and channel distribution after the channel extension.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.8.3 Weight Channel Post-extension for Image Input
Weight channel post-extension is an option to enhance MAC efficiency when channel size is less than 64 (ATOMIC_C). It is available for image input mode only. The key idea of channel post- extension is to combine multiple neighbor lines to saving efficiency. It allows two-line (C_pre-ext <=32) or four-line (C_pre-ext<=16) combination. Software should use four-line to improve CMAC utilization if C_pre-ext <16. Both two and four parameters are available. For image post-extension weight surface, neighbored lines should be separated. For 2-line post-extension, line0 should be stored in low-32B, and line1 should be stored in high-32B. For 4-line post-extension, line0 should be stored in low-16B of first 32B, line1 in high-16B of first 32B, line2 in low-16B of second 32B, and line3 in high-16B of second 32B. If this option is enabled, NVDLA manages to post-extend input image data in CSC sub-units wile software needs to adjust weight mapping order. The channel post-extension is done after pre- extension. The figure below shows a case when the parameter is 2.
**Figure 8.8 Weight Channel Post-Extension (parameter = 2)**
The flow of pre-extension, post-extension, mapping, and compression option for image weight:
- Do pre-extension
- Do post-extension
- Remap weight data
Do weight compression. Some tips for post-extension: Channel post-extension supports (U)INT8. Channel post-extension only support 2-line and 4-line. If weight height is not divisible by two (2-lines) or four (4-lines), append 0s.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.8.4 Basic Weight for Deconvolution
Deconvolution is the opposite operation of convolution. Refer to the Deconvolution section for more details. In the DLA architecture deconvolution is a software feature. From a hardware perspective, it consists of a series of convolution layers and a contract layer running on the RUBIK unit.
- The number of convolution layers to support one deconvolution layer is (deconv_x_stride *
deconv_y_stride). So, we need to separate the original weight map into multiple weight maps. This step is called weight split. Before weight split, we have one extra step to do. Unlike convolution, channel size of input feature cube does not match with weight channel but weight kernel. We need to transpose Channel and Kernel of original weight data. Suppose original parameters are: After set split, we will have (deconv_x_stride * deconv_y_stride) sets of weight kernels as well as convolution layer number. Each set has K kernels. And size of one kernel is: The figure below shows how to do a weight split to one kernel.

- DLA Functional Description
**Figure 8.9 Weight Set Split for Deconvolution**
In the case above, finally we have four sets of weight kernels. The following steps to map weights for deconvolution are similar to direct convolution: Distribute each set of kernels into groups. Each group contains ATOMIC_K kernels. Divide each kernel to atomic cubes. Append 0 if channel size is not divisible by ATOMIC_C. After division, all weights are stored in 1x1xC' small cubes, where C' is 32 bytes.
- Scan the 1x1xC' small cubes in a group with C'->K->S->R->C sequence. Map them compactly
as a scanning sequence. Map the weight groups serially. Append any 0s between group boundaries. Append 0s at end of all mapped weight to align to 32 bytes.
- The figure below shows how weight maps inside one kernel group. Note the reversed order of
kernel mapping comparing to the Channel Extension for Image Weight figure.

- DLA Functional Description
**Figure 8.10 Weight Mapping for Deconvolution Inside One Group**
##### 8.1.2.8.5 Weight for Group Convolution
Weight for group convolution is an option to enhance MAC efficiency when GROUP_SIZE is less than ATOMIC_C. It is available for feature input mode only. Weights for group convolution mode are divided into kernel groups. One kernel group has ATOMIC_K kernels, the last kernel group can have fewer kernels. ATOMIC_K kernels are packed into ATOMIC_K/GROUP_SIZE kernels, as shown in the diagram below. The scan order is: ATOMIC_C->group_size->R*S->KG

- DLA Functional Description
**Figure 8.11 Weight Mapping for Group Convolution, GROUP_SIZE=8,INT8**
**Figure 8.12 Weight Mapping for Group Convolution, GROUP_SIZE=8,INT8(ATOMIC_C-**
>group_size->R*S)

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.8.6 Weight Compression
- To reduce the bandwidth and power consumption on the memory interface, the NVDLA engine
supports the weight sparse compression option. All four weight formats which compose of weight for DC, weight for the image as input, weight for image post extension, and weight for group convolution, can support sparse compression. The sparse algorithm uses sparsity patterns to indicate which weight elements are zero or not. There are five kinds of patterns in total: 4:0/4:1/4:2/4:3/4:4. The definition of sparsity patterns (SP) in MC/UB may be different from what is in CBUF, which means that WCDMA may need to convert the SP before writing into CBUF. They are described in the table below:
- Table 8.3 Sparsity Pattern in MC/UB and CBUF
Sparsity patterns of one kernel cube compose a sparsity pattern group, or sparsity pattern. SPs reside in a dedicated memory surface. 0 values can be removed from the original weight memory surface, which is called compressed weight (CW). The total size of the CW surface is defined in registers which are configurable by software. The steps of weight compression are: Use four bits of SP to indicate four elements, no matter what the precision is. Compress weight KC by KC. Assembly of bits for one KC is called SP. The bits in SP are stored as little-endian.
- Align one KC SP to 64-byte. Align the SP surface to 64-byte by adding 0 bits in the end
Remove all 0 weights in original surface and pack them compactly. Align one KC CW to 64-byte. Align the CW surface to 64-byte by adding 0s in the end. Store SP and CW into two separated memory surfaces in MC/UB.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.8.7 Weight for Tiny-CK
- The weight format of C=64/64+ && K=32 is just as same as deconvolution, but the format of
weight for ARS=2 is different from deconvolution, it's scan order within one KC is ATOMIC_M->R*S- >ATOMIC_K, the diagram below is an example with RxS=3x3:
##### 8.1.2.8.8 Weight for FP16 DC
Software configures the weight into the data format below. The weight is divided into multiple kernel groups and each kernel group has 32 kernels. The same position of the different kernel is in the neighbor address of UB/MC. For example, the (0,0,0) of kernel 1 and (0,0,0) of kernel 2 is adjacent in UB/MC. Besides, the start address of weight data of different kernel groups is aligned into 64B. The weight data of a kernel group is tightly arranged in the UB/MC.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.8.9 Weight for FP16 Depthwise
For the algorithm of depthwise, the channel of each kernel must be 1 and the ATOMIC_K is 16. The start address should be 64B aligned.
#### 8.1.2.9 Falcon
A NVIDIA proprietary Falcon microcontroller is embedded in the NVDLA engine. Falcon takes care of host interactions including:
- Class write: Falcon responses for translating driver configurations into NVDLA internal
register configurations. Register read and write: Falcon forwards register accessing to NVDLA internal registers. Context switches. It also is responsible for error handling, and sending interrupts and fault reports to external units. The SoC memory system interfaces with client engines via AXI compatible protocol. FALCON core and DMAs in NVDLA_CORE adopt GPU FB-like interface for memory accessing. A bus interface module named AFBIF is used for protocol conversion.

- DLA Functional Description
**Figure 8.13 Falcon Block Diagram**
- Table 8.4 NVDLA Falcon Parameters
- Feature
- Value
- DMEM size
64KB
- IMEM size
32KB
- PC size (IMEM tag size)
16MB
- CSB size
16MB
- PRIV address space size
18bit
- Falcon core version
- Falcon6
- High secure Falcon
- No
- Light secure Falcon
- Yes (tied to NO secure when embedded)
- Debug PRIV interface needed
- No (jtag2falcon is removed in Falcon)
- Security coprocessor needed
- No
- FBIF needed
- No
- AFBIF needed
- Yes
- AFBIF AXI wdata bit width
- AFBIF AXI rdata bit width

- DLA Functional Description
#### 8.1.2.10 Convolution Operations
Convolution is the core function in the NVDLA and there are several convolutional operations, such as direct convolution, De-convolution, 3D convolution, and so on.
##### 8.1.2.10.1 Direct Convolution
For the convolution pipeline, it always has two parts of the input. One is input activation data, the other is weight data. The output of convolution operation is also a 3D data cube. An example of input parameters:
- Size of feature data cube: WxHxC
- Size of one weight kernel: SxRxC
- Total kernel number: K
- Zero padding size: LP stands for the left boundary, RP stands for the right boundary, TP
stands for the top boundary, BP stands for the bottom boundary.
- Convolution stride: SX stands for the stride in the X dimension, SY in the Y dimension
- Dilation: DX in X dimension, DY in the Y dimension
- Size of output data cube: W'xH'xC'
**Figure 8.14 Convolution Operation**
##### 8.1.2.10.2 Atomic Operation
The atomic operation is the basic step of direct convolution. In one atomic operation, each MAC cell caches one 1x1xATOMIC_C weight cubes from an individual weight kernel. ATOMIC_K MAC cells cache weights from ATOMIC_K kernels (int8). One 1x1xATOMIC_C atomic cube of feature data shares by all MAC cells. The output of each MAC cell is called partial sum. This operation takes one cycle to finish the calculation and gets the ATOMIC_K partial sums. Partial sums are sent to convolution accumulator module for further calculation.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.10.3 Stripe Operation
A stripe operation combines a group of atomic operations from several convolutions. During one stripe operation, the weight data in the MAC cell array is unchanged. The partial sums in one stripe operation cannot be added together. The maximum length of the stripe operation for deconvolution is 80 (is 64+16). The figure below shows an example of a stripe operation which contains two atomic operations. The padding size is 0 in this case.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.10.4 Block Operation
Block operation is a higher level to stripe operations. During block linear, each kernel in the kernel group uses RxSxATOMIC_C weight elements. A small cube of input feature data shifts properly, to guarantee that the results can add together across stripe operations.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.10.5 Channel Operation
Channel operation is an even higher-level operation. It includes (C+ATOMIC_C-1)/ATOMIC_C block operations. The block operations in one channel operation are similar, except the coordinate of channel direction is different.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.10.6 Group Operation
Group operation is a higher-level operation than channel operation. It includes ceil((dataout_height
- dataout_width) / stripe_size) channel operations. After a group operation, the output data
composes a P x Q x K' output surface. Here K' refers to kernel size in a kernel group.
##### 8.1.2.10.7 Output Sequence
The sequence mentioned in each operation is mainly for input feature data and weight data, but not the output sequence. The output data sequence is quite simple. It follows the order of C'(ATOMIC_K)->W->H->K. The output order of direct convolution is consistent with feature memory mapping order.
##### 8.1.2.10.8 Deconvolution
In NVDLA architecture, deconvolution is achieved by a convolution HWL and a RUBIK. Deconvolution is also known as Transposed Convolution. From a hardware perspective, a software deconvolution layer consists of a serial convolution layer and a contract layer supported by the RUBIK unit.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.10.9 Dilation
Dilation is an option that enlarges the kernel in R and S dimensions with zero values. This function is enabled by software according to the algorithm.
##### 8.1.2.10.10 Convolution with Image Input
- NVDLA supports convolution with image data. Here image data could be a part or whole image
surface. However, NVDLA can support it for a convolution operation. DC and deconvolution layers cannot use pixel formats as input. Besides, the multi-batch option is not supported for image input.
##### 8.1.2.10.11 Multi-Batch Mode
- The NVDLA engine also supports multi-batch to enhance the performance and reduce the
bandwidth for DC, especially FC (fully-connected) layers that the output of one FC layer is a 1x1xC data cube. This means all weights in one FC layer are used only once and performance is bound at weight fetching. In multi-batch mode weights can be reused for multiple times and MAC utilization can be increased.
#### 8.1.2.11 Convolution Working Modes for Convolution
There are three working modes of CPIPEs for the convolution layer: CONV_N mode, CONV_K mode, and CONV_P mode. Some CPIPEs can be disabled and others can be enabled in all three modes. The first enabled CPIPE must be CPIPE0 and all the CPIPEs enabled must be contiguous. Software is responsible for deciding how many CPIPEs are enabled. The relationship between BROADCAST/ NON-BROADCAST and convolution mode is depicted below.
- Conv_mode
- FCDMA
- WCDMA
- SDP(PDP)/SDP_OP
- Group conv
- Non-Broadcast (split-C)
- Non-Broadcast (split_K)
split_C
- Conv_p
- Non-Broadcast (Separate)
- Broadcast (share)
- Seperate
- Conv_N
- Non-Broadcast (split_H)
- Broadcast (share)
split_H
- Conv_K
- Broadcast (share)
- Non-Broadcast (split_K)
split_C, if (online mode) share, if (offline mode)
- Not defined(invalid)
- Broadcast (Share)
- Broadcast (Share)
- Share
Separate means that two CPIPEs each have their own cube.
- Share means two CPIPEs use same cube
- Split_K means the cube is divided according to the kernel direction
- Split_C means the cube is divided according to the channel direction

- DLA Functional Description
- Split_H means the cube is divided according to the height direction
##### 8.1.2.11.1 CONV_N Mode
In this mode, the output cube is divided into CPIPE_NUM partitions in the Height direction. Each
- CPIPE produces one part of the output cube. Some data in input data cube may be used by
multiple CPIPEs. So, the output of current layer may be written to neighbor CPIPES. The destination can be CBUF, UBUF, or MC.
##### 8.1.2.11.2 CONV_K Mode
In this mode, the output cube is divided into CPIPE_NUM partitions in the Channel direction. Each CPIPE produces one partition of the output cube. The input data cube is shared by all CPIPE_NUM CPIPEs. However, they use different weight kernels.
##### 8.1.2.11.3 CONV_P Mode
CONV_P (Parallel) mode is very similar to CONV_N mode. The only difference is that in In CONV_P mode, the BP/TP/LP/RP size, width, and height must be the same for each CPIPE.
##### 8.1.2.11.4 Group Convolution
NVDLA2.0 supports group convolution only with feature inputs, besides, C must be equal to K, and C must be multiple of GROUP_SIZE.
##### 8.1.2.11.5 Structured Sparsity Convolution
Structured sparsity convolution is very like the DC except that there is a special restriction for its weights, and the restriction is “No more than two non-zeros for every four weight coefficients in C dimension.” We can leverage this restriction to save weight load bandwidth, moreover, we can get a 2x performance boost.
##### 8.1.2.11.6 Tiny-CK Convolution
Tiny-CK convolution stands for the convolution operation whose C or K is less or equal 32.
#### 8.1.2.12 CDMA
For all of CPIPEs, there is one Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) unit which consists of two sub-logic: the left one serves CPIPE0 and the right one serves CPIPE1 (Assuming CPIPE_NUM=2). It reads feature and weight data from UBUF or MCIF and writes to CBUF. The supported input formats are listed below. All of them can be in UBUF or MC which is specified by internal registers.

- DLA Functional Description
- Pixel data
feature data
- Uncompressed weight
- SP
- CW
- CDMA also decompress the compressed weight and write decompressed weight to CBUF. Pixel
data and feature data share one read client channel to MCIF or UBIF. Uncompressed/compressed weight, SP and CW shares one read client channel to MCIF or UBIF. Convolution DMA sends read requests only. All requests sent by FCDMA are 32-byte aligned, and all requests sent by WCDMA are 64-byte aligned, the start address in CB for weight is 64B aligned as well.
#### 8.1.2.13 Convolution Pipeline (CPIPE)
- There are total CPIPE_NUM*ATOMIC_C*ATOMIC_K MACs in NVDLA 2.0. These MACs are divided into
- CPIPE_NUM CPIPEs and each CPIPE contains ATOMIC_C*ATOMIC_K MACs in CMAC. For the later
sections, we will use INT8 as an example (ATIMOC_K/C are 32/32) to facilitate description.
- One CPIPE also contains CBUF, CSC, CACC, and SDP. CBUF stores feature and weight data. CSC
reads feature and weight from CBUF and feeds them to CMAC. These CPIPEs work independently except that the result of the current CPIPE may be written to neighbor CPIPEs. Three different kinds of operations can be performed in CPIPE. 1. 2. 3.
- Pooling
- Convolution
- SDP stands alone
The write arbitration logics to CBUF are instanced in CARB, and the write arbitration logic to SDP is instanced in SDP. The interrupt is generated by SDP.
- Within CPIPE, there are three OP_ENs (CPP/CACC/SDP) to be configured by software, to save
verification effort, the order of configuring OP_ENs is fixed. Software must ENABLE SDP first, then enable CACC, then CPP. There are multiple pipeline stages in the convolution pipeline, the OP_EN programming sequence has to be in reverse order. Software must enable CACC before enabling CPP because the protocol used between CSC and CACC is valid-credit, the protocol used between CSC and CMAC is valid- only.

- DLA Functional Description
#### 8.1.2.14 Super Data Processor
- Super Data Processor (SDP) is responsible for element-wise operations (ADD, SUB, MAX, MIN,
PROD), activation (ReLU, PReLU, Sigmoid, Tanh, etc), Pooling, and normalizations (LRN, Full-channel normalization, Full-tensor normalization, Batch Normalization, Scale, etc.). From a functional point of view, SDP supports functional layers below:
- Eltwise Layer – MAX/MIN/SUM/PROD operations are supported
- Batch Normalization
- Scale Layer
- Bias Layer
- ReLU, Clamped ReLU
- PReLU
- Precision conversion
- EQL mode
- LRN Layer (Local Response Normalization)
- Normalization Layer
- LUT based activations (e.g., Sigmoid, eLU, TanH, etc.)
- Precision conversion
- Pooling Layer
- Clip_bottom, Clip_up
- Layer Name
- Network
- Hardware Functional Unit
- LRN Layer
AlexNet, GoogLeNet, etc.
- SSU+LUT+MUL
- Normalization Layer
- SSD
- SSU+LUT+MUL
- Eltwise Layer
ResNet, etc.
- OP or MUL
- Batch Normalization Layer
ResNet, etc.
- OP + MUL
- Scale Layer
- ResNet, DriveNet_v7_Apollo, DenseNet,
etc.
- MUL
- Bias Layer
DriveNet_v7_Apollo, etc.
- OP
- ReLU
AlexNet, GoogLeNet, ResNet, etc.
- CLIP
- Clamped ReLU
DriveNet, etc.
- CLAMP
- PReLU
ResNet, etc.
- MUL
- LUT based activation
RNN, LSTM, etc.
- LUT+SPIN_SUM
- SoftMax
AlexNet, GoogLeNet, ResNet, etc.
- LUT+SPIN+MUL
- Pooling
AlexNet, GoogLeNet, ResNet, etc.
- PDP + MUL (if average pooling)

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.14.1 PDP
Planar Data Processor (PDP) is a sub-unit of SDP which is designed to handle pooling layer with max/min/mean pooling methods supported. Several neighboring input elements within a width x height plane will send to a non-linear function to compute one output element.
#### 8.1.2.15 Unified Buffer
The Unified Buffer (UBUF) is a tightly coupled local memory inside Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA). The UBUF memory is composed of four banks of SRAM. Each bank has one read port and one write port. The entry size is 64-Byte. The entry number in a bank is configurable and current number is 4096. UBUF is deployed with two read ports and two write ports, each is 64-Byte of width. The UBUF access address should be always 64-Byte aligned. Banks are selected by address[7:6].
- For read access, the minimum unit is an ATOMIC_M. For write access, the minimum unit is an
- ATOMIC_M, there is a strobe to indicate the write portion in an entry. The lower ATOMIC_M
bytes and higher ATOMIC_M bytes in one entry can be read or write separately by two different clients in one cycle. If bytes in one ATOMIC_M are read and written simultaneously in one cycle, the read data is unpredictable. So software has to make sure there is no overlap between surfaces.
##### 8.1.2.15.1 UBIF
- UBUF communicates with DLA components through two Unified-Buffer-Interfaces (UBIFs). Each
UBIF takes two read ports and two write ports of UBUF and serves several clients. Interfaces between UBUF and UBIF, UBIF and clients, are all in 64-Byte width. Client to UBIF request should not cross the 256-Byte boundary and the start address and size should always be ATOMIC_M aligned. Since the address alignment of client-> UBIF request and UBIF-> UBUF request are different, UBIF is responsible to generate strobes for client requests according to request address and size for UBUF access.
#### 8.1.2.16 Bridge DMA
- Bridge DMA (BDMA) is an engine that moves data from memory to memory. The BDMA source and
destination memory can be either UB or DBB. If there is overlap between source and destination memory range, the behavior is undefined.
- The BDMA interface is 64-Byte in width. The BDMA to memory request address is always
- ATOMIC_M aligned. The maximum memory request size of BDMA is
MEM_PREFERED_ACCESS_SIZE. Maximum throughput of BDMA is 64-Byte per cycle.

- DLA Functional Description
#### 8.1.2.17 RUBIK
- The RUBIK module is similar to BDMA. It transforms data mapping format without any data
calculation. RUBIK interface is 64-Byte in width. The RUBIK to memory request address is always
- ATOMIC_M aligned. Maximum throughput of RUBIK is 64-Byte per cycle. The maximum memory
request size is MEM_PREFERED_ACCESS_SIZE. RUBIK has four working modes: 1. 2. 3. 4. contract data cube split feature data cube into multi-planar formats merge multi-planar formats to data cube shrink a series of feature cubes in 2D feature format to one feature data cube
**Figure 8.15 RUBIK Diagram**
##### 8.1.2.17.1 Contract Mode
A software deconvolution layer uses several hardware layers or two phases. Phase 1 generates results via the convolution pipeline. Phase 2 is the contract mode by RUBIK. Normally, a software deconvolution layer has deconvolution x stride and y stride that are greater than 1, and with these strides, the output of the Phase 1 hardware layer is a channel-extended data cube. The contract mode in RUBIK transforms the mapping format to de-extend the cube.

- DLA Functional Description
**Figure 8.16 Contract Mode in RUBIK**
##### 8.1.2.17.2 Split and Merge Mode
Split and merge are two opposite operation modes in RUBIK. Split transforms a data cube into M- planar formats (NCHW). The number of planes is equal to channel size. Merge transforms a serial of planars to a feature data cube. RUBIK supports (U)INT8 and FP16 data formats. Each planar contains only one channel data or single element. The line stride, surface stride and planar stride of all planars (M-planar) shall be 0 or align to 32-Byte.
**Figure 8.17 Split and Merge Modes in RUBIK**

- DLA Functional Description
- Shrink Mode in Rubik
Shrink operation transforms a series of feature cubes in 2D feature format to one feature data cube. The transform is shown in the figure below. It's used to squeeze out the redundant data in channel direction of input cubes. For example, when CBUF is too small to store kernels of one kernel group, split-K may be used in software and shrink mode can be used to merge output data cubes.
##### 8.1.2.17.3 Concat Mode in Rubik
Concat mode concatenates two feature cubes of 2D feature format to one feature data cube. These two feature cubes have same width, height, and data precision. The dummy data after the valid data in the first cube is dropped. The operation is shown in the figure below. The first cube's channel size is M bytes. The second cube's channel size is N bytes. The valid range of M is M>0 and N>=0. M and N can be larger than 32 Bytes. The space in the last surface after valid data shall be filled with zero when writing to output cube.

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.17.4 DWP for Depthwise Convolution in Rubik
- NVDLA2.0 implemented dedicated hardware sub-unit (depthwise processor, DWP) to support
depth-wise convolution. DWP shares the memory ports of Rubik. The depthwise layers with below parameters are supported. When performing depthwise convolution, the input feature can be int8, uint8 or FP16, precision of weight has to be FP16. The precision of output feature of DWP is FP16. kernel_size
- Stride
- Pad
3x3 0/1 3x3 0/1 5x5 0/2 5x5 0/2

- DLA Functional Description
##### 8.1.2.17.5 DWP for Direct Convolution in Rubik
- DWP also supports direct convolution. The convolution layers with below parameters are
supported. When performing direct convolution in DWP, the precision of input feature, output feature and weight must be FP16. kernel_size
- Stride
- Pad
R <=32 S <= 32 [1,32] [0,31]
#### 8.1.2.18 GP and CFGDMA
Graph processor (GP) and Config DMA (CFGDMA) cooperates together to schedule hardware layers on sub-units. Each sub-unit reports its state (programmed, enabled, completed etc.) and layers index it depends on for the currently programmed layer to GP. GP can enable the engine as soon as all the dependencies for currently programmed layer are resolved. CFGDMA is under the control of GP. It fetches configuration of each layer and programs the sub- units.
##### 8.1.2.18.1 Sub-Units
The table below lists all the sub-units in NVDLA. Other columns are for CSB registers, dedicated hardware layer which contains OP_EN register, and interrupts to GLB.
- Table 8.5 NVDLA Sub-units
- Sub-Unit
- CSB Registers
- OP_EN
- Interrupt to GLB
- FALCON
Y (Not accessible by CSB_MASTER) N -
- CSB_MASTER
N N -
- CINFO0
N N -
- CINFO1
N N -
- CBUF0
N N -
- CBUF1
N N -
- CARB0
N N -
- CARB1
N N -
- CPIPE_CTRL
N N cpipe
- BDMA
Y Y bdma
- RUBIK
Y Y rubik

- DLA Functional Description
- Sub-Unit
- CSB Registers
- OP_EN
- Interrupt to GLB
- MCIF0
Y N -
- MCIF1
Y N -
- UBIF0
Y N -
- UBIF1
Y N -
- UBUF
N N -
- GLB
Y N -
- SDP_OP_RDMA0
Y Y -
- SDP_OP_RDMA1
Y Y -
- FCDMA
Y Y cdma_data
- WCDMA
Y Y cdma_wt
- SDP0
Y Y -
- SDP1
Y Y -
- CPP0
Y Y -
- CPP1
Y Y -
- CACC0
Y Y -
- CACC1
Y Y -
- CMAC0
N N -
- CMAC1
N N -
- GP
Y Y
- See GP->GLB
- CFGDMA
Y Y slot_done, slot_available
#### 8.1.2.19 Interface Between UBIF/MCIF and their Clients
The data bus width is XXIF_BUS_WIDTH on the interfaces between UBIF/MCIF and their clients. The request size should be multiple of ATOMIC_M. The maximum request sizes between clients and
- UBIF/MCIF are defined as MEM_PREFERED_ACCESS_SIZE. It's better for sub-units to send
- MEM_PREFERED_ACCESS_SIZE size requests to MCIF and UBIF as much as possible because of
performance. The request can't cross boundary of MEM_PREFERED_ACCESS_SIZE. If the request crosses 64Bytes boundary, UBIF or MCIF will split them into 64-Byte or 32-Byte requests and each request doesn't cross boundary of MEM_PREFERED_ACCESS_SIZE. Valid-ready protocol is used. For the alignment of request address:
- Request address is aligned to 32B

- DLA Functional Description
- Request size is multiple of 32B
- No strobe signals for write
- Mask signals for read return data
#### 8.1.2.20 Interrupts of Sub-Units
CPIPE safety error interrupt is triggered when di/dt (rate of change of current) is enabled and the result is a mismatch between MAC Cells. This interrupt is sent to GLB only. Other interrupts must be sent to GLB or GP in the order of programming hardware layers. The interrupt of one layer can't be sent to GLB or GP before the interrupt of previous layer in one sub- unit. (This is guaranteed by each sub-unit hardware). When one sub-unit (except WCDMA) triggers an interrupt, it has to guarantee the memory and status registers have been updated. The CPIPE done interrupt can't rise before FCDMA interrupt and WCDMA interrupt.
#### 8.1.2.21 Layer Switch
During layer switch, if there is data dependency between the current layer and previous layer, op_en can be only set by software when write response done (wrd) is received and the interrupt is triggered. In this case, Falcon needs about 140 cycles to handle the interrupt. If there is no data dependency, the switch can be performed when op_en is set and write done (wd) is received. In this case, the op_en bit can be set earlier before interrupt. Because there is no bit indicating whether there is data dependency or not, hardware has to use the conservative method of checking both write response done is received and op_en is set before switch. To save the time on interrupt handler, a register SWITCH_MODE is added to some sub-units: 1'b0 (FAST_SWITCH): switch and start execute next layer when write done and op_en is set 1'b1 (SAFE_SWITCH): switch and start execute next layer when write response done and op_en is set
- For units which supports configurable switch mode, if there's data dependency between the
current layer and next layer, set the SWITCH_MODE of the current layer to SAFE_SWITCH. Otherwise, set SWITCH_MODE of the current layer to FAST_SWITCH for better performance. Software can always set the OP_EN of the next layer to 1 despite the interrupt status of current layer. For units that don't support configurable switch mode, they adopt FAST_SWITCH mode and software has to take care of the OP_EN setting accordingly. The switch mode requirement for each engine is listed below:
- Engine
- Safe Switch
- Fast Switch
- SDP
- Yes
- Yes
- Rubik, DWP, cfgdma
- No
- Yes

- DLA Functional Description
- Engine
- Safe Switch
- Fast Switch
- GP, BDMA*
- Yes
- No
- Note that BDMA is a little bit tricky since it has two-switch behavior:
1.
- Slots switch within group: We use fast switch, however, if there are src_ram_type change
between slots, we'll wait for one slot done then switch to another group. This is to avoid an out-of-order data response which may cause functional error.
- Group to group switch: Always switch to another group when write_ack triggered (safe
switch) to save design effort on the interrupt out-of-order handling. 2.
#### 8.1.2.22 Latency Buffers
- The formula to calculate the size of latency buffer is Latency*throughput = Latency*min
(in_throughtput, out_throughput). in_throughtput is the input data size per cycle of the datapath. out_throughput is the capability of data processing in datapath. In MaxP (emcclk is 800 MHz) use cases, the read latency of MCIF0 or MCIF1 is 1600 cycles and the read bandwidth of MCIF0 or MCIF1 is 22GB/s. For UB, latency of UB is 16 cycles and in_throughput is 64GB/s. The size of latency buffer in sub-units are listed below. MC latency is used to calculate the size of latency buffers. The design has to make the size configurable. The latency buffers are located and managed in sub-units, not in UBIF or MCIF.
- Table 8.6 Size of Latency Buffers
- Sub-Unit
- Size
- Latency*Throughput (Byte)
- Comment
- RUBIK
74KB
- MC: 1600*min(22, 32)*2*1.08
- RUBIK is connected to both MCIF0
and MCIF1.
- BDMA
37KB
- MC: 1600*min(22, 64)*1.08
- SDP_OP_RDMA0
37KB
- MC: 1600*min(22, 32)*1.08
- SDP_OP_RDMA1
37KB
- MC: 1600*min(22, 32)*1.08
- WCDMA SP
29.5KB
- MC: 1600*8*1.08*2*1.08
- First 1.08 is the typical frequency in
GHz.
- WCDMA_SP is connected to both
MCIF0 and MCIF1.
- WCDMA CW
74KB
- MC: 1600*min(22, 64)*2*1.08
- WCDMA_CW is connected to both
MCIF0 and MCIF1.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
