# 9.5 GPIO Controllers

### 9.5.1 Overview
The GPIO Controllers allow control of General Purpose IO pins for a variety of system functions. In addition to the basic GPIO functionalities, the GPIO Controllers also support virtualization and a

- GPIO Controllers
secure access control mechanism with firewalls. The following key words are used in the description of the GPIO Controllers:
- GPIO Pin
A single General-Purpose I/O pin which may share a physical I/O pin with other functional I/ O pins through Pin Multiplexing (PinMux).
- For details of how the PinMux mechanism works, refer to the Programming Model section
of the PinMux chapter in this TRM.
- PinMux details are provided by NVIDIA in the form of a spreadsheet, referred to just as
Pinmux. Please ask your NVIDIA representative for details.
- GPIO Port
A collection of up to eight GPIO Pins that are physically close to one another.
- GPIO Controller
A GPIO Controller instance controlling up to eight GPIO Ports, or 64 GPIO Pins, based on the address map available for the GPIO Controller instance's APB client.
- Hypervisor (HV)
A low-level software layer managing hardware resources and memory, and supporting one or more Guest Operating Systems by providing communication and isolation to them.
- Guest OS
The OS running on a Virtual Machine (VM).
#### 9.5.1.1 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)
- Interrupt Controllers
vGIC Interrupt Controller
- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Timers
#### 9.5.1.2 Features
There are altogether nine GPIO Controllers in the Orin SoC. Six in VDD_SOC core power (TOP cluster). One in VDD_RTC core power (AON cluster).

- GPIO Controllers
Two in VDD_FSI core power (FSI cluster). Each of the GPIO Controller maps to a set of GPIO Ports in association with their Pad Control Groups as shown in the table below.
- Table 9.57 GPIO Controllers and Port Mapping
- GPIO Controller
- GPIO Ports
- Pad Control Groups
- Padlet Group / Voltage Domain
- GPIO_CTL0
A (8)*
- G5
- VDDIO_G5
B (1)*
- DEBUG
- VDDIO_DEBUG
- AC (8)*
- AD (4)*
- G7
- VDDIO_G7
- GPIO_CTL1
X (8)* Y (8)* Z (8)*
- G2
- VDDIO_G2
- GPIO_CTL2
M (8)* N (8)*
- EDP
- VDDIO_EDP
P (8)* Q (8)* R (6)*
- G3
- VDDIO_G3
- GPIO_CTL3
K (8)* L (4)*
- PEX_CTL
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL
- AE (2)*
- UFS
- VDDIO_UFS
- AF (4)*
- PEX_CTL_2
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL_2
- AG (8)*
- PEX_CTL_3
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL_3
- GPIO_CTL4
G (8)* H (8)* I (7)*
- G4
- VDDIO_G4
- GPIO_CTL5
C (8)* D (4)*
- QSPI
- VDDIO_QSPI
E (8)* F (6)*
- EQOS
- VDDIO_EQOS
J (6)*
- SDMMC1_HV
- VDDIO_SDMMC1_HV
- GPIO_AON
- AA (8)*
- BB (4)*
- AO_HV
- VDDIO_AO_HV
- CC (8)*
- DD (3)*
- AO
- VDDIO_AO
- EE (8)*
- GG (1)*
- SYS
- VDDIO_SYS
- GPIO_FSI_CTL0
S (8)* T (2)*
- G9
- VDDIO_G9

- GPIO Controllers
- GPIO Controller
- GPIO Ports
- Pad Control Groups
- Padlet Group / Voltage Domain
W (2)*
- G11
- VDDIO_G11
- GPIO_FSI_CTL1
U (8)* V (1)*
- G10
- VDDIO_G10
- : Number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port.
The Orin GPIO Controllers support over 200 GPIO Pins (217 to be exact), most of which share physical I/O pins with other functional (including testing) I/O's under the control of PinMux and Pad
- Control. The following diagram illustrates the functional structure encompassing the GPIO
Controller, PAD Control, PinMux, and physical I/O pins.
**Figure 9.48 Functional Structure Encompassing GPIO Controller, LSIO Controllers, PAD Control,**
- PinMux, and Physical I/O Pins
For details of the PAD Control and PinMux, refer to the PinMux chapter in this TRM.
### 9.5.2 Functional Description
#### 9.5.2.1 Basic GPIO Controller Structure
- The GPIO Controller manages groups of GPIO Pins for
- Input with the physical pin input available at the corresponding GPIO register (GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0) to be read by software.

- GPIO Controllers
- Output with software-written values in the corresponding GPIO register (GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0). where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. NOTE: For details of these GPIO Input and Output registers, refer to the Registers section below. The GPIO Controller at the GPIO Pin level has provisions to perform the following functions: Configuring the GPIO Pin for Input/Output direction.
- Sampling a GPIO Input Data to the corresponding register and Driving GPIO Output Data
from the corresponding register to a GPIO Pin. Generating Interrupts based on the programmed polarity levels and transitions. De-bouncing and Filtering of input signals.
- The following diagram shows the basic blocks in the GPIO
Controller.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.49 GPIO Controller Block Diagram**
NOTE: The TimeStamp (TS) Trigger is in the AON GPIO Controller only.
- The Error Collator (EC) of the AON GPIO Controller is outside the AON GPIO Controller, but
still in the Always ON power region. 1. 2.
##### 9.5.2.1.1 APB SLAVE Generator and Config/Status Registers
The APB Slave Generator interfaces with the Control BackBone (CBB) through the APB interface.
- Apart from the proper protocol interfacing and termination, this block also implements the
necessary Clock crossing structures. The Config/Status Register block which interfaces with the SoC via the APB bus through the APB Interface Generator, consists of all GPIO Controllers Configuration Registers and Status Registers listed as follows:
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INT<jj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,

- GPIO Controllers
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}, and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
- GPIO_<iii>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INT<jj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V, <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}, and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. NOTE: For details of these GPIO Input and Output registers, refer to the Registers section below.
##### 9.5.2.1.2 SCR and Virtualization Checker
The Virtualization checker validates the incoming APB transaction with respect to VM config attributes set up by Hypervisor, then accordingly permits or denies access to the specific register. Non-privileged Guest OS access violations are dropped with APB slave error.
**Figure 9.50 GPIO Virtualization Checker for GPIO_CTL<0/1/2/3/4/5>**

- GPIO Controllers
##### 9.5.2.1.3 GPIO Debounce Logic
The Debounce logic is a simple Glitch Filter with a filtering granularity of 1 msec. The Debounce logic receives a constant 1-msec pulse from the Timestamp System Counter (TSC), a toggle-based event to indicate 1-msec intervals. The pulse from the TSC is double synchronized and edge detected for reference filtering.
##### 9.5.2.1.4 GPIO Input and Level/Edge Detection
This block processes the GPIO inputs (from pads through PinMux logic) for edge/level detection, updates the Status Registers, and forwards the triggers to the Interrupt generation block & TS trigger block. The GPIO Pin input level is updated in the GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0 register for software access.
##### 9.5.2.1.5 Interrupt Generation and Status
- This block generates Interrupt triggers based on the output of the GPIO Input Level/Edge
Detection block. The generated Interrupt triggers are then routed to the LIC followed by generated Interrupt Status.
- The following diagram shows the consolidated view of GPIO Interrupt generation and Status
updates per Pin for each Security Master (NVG0 through NVG7) as well as Virtual Machine (VM1/ Guest OS0 through VM8/Guest OS7).

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.51 GPIO Controller Interrupt and Interrupt Status Scheme**
For details of the GPIO Interrupts, refer to the GPIO Interrupts section below.
##### 9.5.2.1.6 TS Trigger
The TS (TimeStamp) Trigger block generates triggers for the timestamping block, i.e., the Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE) block outside of the GPIO Controller based on the output of the GPIO Input & Level/Edge Detection block.
##### 9.5.2.1.7 GPIO Output Control and Value
This part of logic drives the GPIO output as programmed in the GPIO OUT register (GPIO_<i>/ <iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_<j>_0) by software. The GPIO Controller output propagates through the PinMux logic then to the physical pin/pad.
##### 9.5.2.1.8 GPIO Clock Gating
- The GPIO Controller implements the Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) scheme for power
optimization. In line with the per-pin configuration capabilities, the SLCG structures are realized such that the Config Registers logic Clock is gated except when Register access is active,

- GPIO Controllers
the per-pin GPIO logic Clock is gated except when the GPIO Pin is active in either Input or Output mode, i.e. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == 1). Both Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) structures, SLCG1 and SLCG2, can be bypassed with the
- GPIO_<k>/FSI<m>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0 register which is on the un-gated version of the
GPIO_CTL<kk>_CLK. In addition, the Parity and Error Collator (EC) registers-related logic is also on the un-gated version of the GPIO_CTL<kk>_CLK for the purpose of capturing possible Parity errors. NOTE: <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON, <m> = 0, 1, and <kk> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
**Figure 9.52 GPIO Controller Clock Gating Overview**
- Clock Gating by CAR during L2 Reset
Under L2 Reset, the CAR logic gates the Clock for Non-AON and FSI GPIO Controllers which have multiple Reset versions. This is done to avoid meta-stable issues in the GPIO logic that is not reset by the L2 Reset.

- GPIO Controllers
Such CAR logic is un-gated after L2 Reset by enabling the special GPIOs to hold the state prior to the L2 Reset. For details of CAR, refer to the Clock and Reset Controller (CAR) chapter in this TRM.
#### 9.5.2.2 GPIO TimeStamping Interface
The Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE) logic in Orin performs event timestamping based on the change in input trigger events and logs the Event ID along with the Global Timestamp in a FIFO. The module that stores the timestamping value is called Capture Slice. Multiple Capture slices are muxed/arbitrated into one Timestamping Slice via the APB. Triggering events based on GPIO input pin changes are forwarded to the GTE by the GPIO Controller to enable the timestamping mechanism. For details of the Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE), refer to the Timers chapter in this TRM. The timestamping provision is limited only to GPIOs handled by the AON GPIO Controller. Hence, use cases or system requirements that call for accurate time synchronization between Orin and a connected device, the connected device must be connected to Orin through an AON GPIO Pin to take advantage of the GTE-backed timestamping to achieve reliable hardware-based time synchronization.
- Timestamping of a GPIO Pin handled by Non-AON GPIO Controllers can be achieved by
timestamping the Interrupts generated form the GPIO Pin to the LIC. The following diagram shows the timestamping triggering structure in the AON GPIO Controller.
**Figure 9.53 TimeStamping Triggering Structure from AON GPIO**

- GPIO Controllers
- In Orin, there are 32 AON GPIO Pins. Their timestamp (TS) triggers together with other AON
clusters TS triggers are forwarded to the GTE and collected in the Common FIFO inside the GTE as shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 9.54 AON to GTE Connection Structure**
##### 9.5.2.2.1 GPIO AON Timestamping Usage
The AON cluster's main purpose is the handling of various sensor related triggers along with the Sensor Processing Engine (SPE). One such timestamping of sensor events is the measurement of pulse widths and identification of certain specific sequence event.
- The timestamp tick granularity is at 32 ns in AON time, with 20-bit count to support event
detection up to 33 msec.
#### 9.5.2.3 GPIO Clock and Reset Control
- Each GPIO Controller is independent and can operate out of the best possible Clock source
meeting its Clock policy constraints and close to its physical location. Following is the summary of high-level Clock requirements. APB Clock for register interface and GPIO Core Clock for GPIO Controller logic separated to facilitate transaction-based Clock gating. APB Clock and GPIO Core Clock completely asynchronous. No relationship between Clocks of different GPIO Controllers.
- AON GPIO Controller core Clock connected to APB Clock to minimize the number of Clocks in
AON cluster. One software Reset (bit) and software/driver entity for each GPIO Controller instance.

- GPIO Controllers
- Non-AON GPIO Controllers with L1 warm Reset to handle mixed-Reset cases. Controller
Clocks during L2 Reset. FSI GPIO Controller Clock limited to XTAL Clock source of 40 MHz.
##### 9.5.2.3.1 System Reset Mapping to GPIO Controllers
The GPIO Controllers can be subject to various Resets outlined as follows:
- L2 Cold Reset
- Covering AON GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, and Common registers. Out of these,
- Common registers are on the secure Reset version which does not have software Reset
provision. Register Parity and logic are on the same Reset as the register being protected.
- L1 Warm Reset
- Covering GPIO Controller/logic associated with CPU_PWR_REQ. L1 Warm Reset does not
have software Reset provision. Also, there is flush/soft Reset synchronous clear option for EC registers.
- L2 Warm Reset
Covering GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, Common registers, and EC registers/logic.
- Out of these, Common registers and EC registers/logic are on the secure Reset version
which does not have software Reset provision. Register Parity and logic are on the same Reset as the register being protected. Covering FSI GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, and Common registers. All the logic in on the secure Reset version which does not have software Reset provision. Register Parity and logic are on same Reset as the register being protected. Further, the following table shows the mapping of different System Resets to GPIO Controllers and logic in both AON and Non-AON clusters.
- Table 9.58 System Reset Mapping to GPIO Controller
- Remark
- GPIO
- Controller in
- AON Cluster
- GPIO Regs and
- Logic on
- CPU_PWR_REQ
- GPIO Controller
in Non-AON
- Cluster
- Associated
- Sources
- Reset
- Source
- Level
- Cold
- Chip Reset
(SYS_RST_N)
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Warm
- SC7 Wake Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- No
- AON GPIO Controller
must survive SC7 state. Hence, SC7
- Wake does not reset
it.
- Level 2
- All WDT Debug Reset
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- The AON GPIO
- Controller together
with all AON I/Os get reset in L2.

- GPIO Controllers
- Remark
- GPIO
- Controller in
- AON Cluster
- GPIO Regs and
- Logic on
- CPU_PWR_REQ
- GPIO Controller
in Non-AON
- Cluster
- Associated
- Sources
- Reset
- Source
- Level
- Level 1c
- Software Cold Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- GPIO pin
- CPU_PWR_REQ,
resets the I/O state only on Cold and Warm Resets in L1.
- CPU power pins in
- GPIO_CTL4 are out of
Reset at L1b.
- Level 1b
- All WDT POR Reset,
- HSM Internal System
- Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Level 1a
- Sensor Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Level 0
- External POR Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- GPIO pin
- CPU_PWR_REQ,
resets the I/O state only on Cold and Warm Resets in L0. NOTE: Yes - Controller/Logic is reset with indicated system Reset variant. No - Controller/Logic is not reset with indicated system Reset variant.
- GPIO Controller Logic on L1 Reset
- To ensure that the CPU power rail is not switched OFF during L2 Reset cycle and thereby
preserving the MCA state, the GPIO Pin CPU_PWR_REQ does not get reset during L2 Reset. Instead, only the I/O state gets reset on Cold and Warm Resets below L2 (i.e. L0/L1) Reset. In addition, the GPIO_CTL4 GPIO Controller is associated with CPU_PWR_REQ, thus requiring L1 Reset when Reset is needed. Similarly, to retain registers states through L2 Reset, the Non-AON GPIO Controller's Parity logic, Error Collator logic, and registers are also on L1 Reset.
#### 9.5.2.4 GPIO Interrupts
This section provides details of Interrupts and the Interrupt Status Registers.
##### 9.5.2.4.1 Interrupt Generation
Each GPIO input change can trigger an Interrupt, reflected in the Interrupt Status. Each Interrupt line has a simple route mapping indicating which GPIO Pin event is mapped to trigger the Interrupt line to the LIC as shown in the following diagram.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.55 Interrupt Generation per GPIO Controller**
##### 9.5.2.4.2 Non-AON GPIO Interrupts Connectivity
Each Non-AON GPIO Controller generates 8 Interrupts and they are directly connected to the LIC at the top level. This ensures that software entities serving the Interrupt know which GPIO Controller has generated the Interrupt by reading the vector status from the LIC. The Interrupt triggers for multiple Pins are combined and channeled to the LIC from each of the GPIO Controllers. Additional latency in Interrupt handling is expected while servicing GPIO Interrupts as this involves multiple MMIO Reads. The Interrupt handler needs to read the GPIO Interrupt Status Registers to figure out the exact GPIO Pin source that triggered the Interrupt. The following diagram shows how the Interrupts are routed to the LIC.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.56 Non-AON GPIO Controllers Interrupts Generation and Connection to LIC**
##### 9.5.2.4.3 AON GPIO Interrupts Connectivity
The AON GPIO Controller also generates eight Interrupt outputs, not all of which are routed to the
- LIC though. Specifically,
two Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[1:0]) are connected as wake event to facilitate GPIO wake from
- SC7,
two other Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[3:2]) are connected to AON VIC to trigger Interrupts to
- SPE, and
remaining four Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[7:4]) are routed to the LIC through a level shifter in the VDD_SOC power domain.
- The AON GPIO Controller does not support Virtualization. Hence, all features related VM
configuration and outputs for the Guest OS are unused. The following diagram shows the breakdown of AON GPIO Controller Interrupt routing.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.57 AON GPIO Controller Interrupt Generation and Connection to LIC**
##### 9.5.2.4.4 Non-AON GPIO Controller Interrupts in the Multi-CPU and Virtualized
- Environment
In Orin, there are multiple CPUs across sub-systems referred to as Security Masters. In the Context of this TRM, Security Master, Security Domain, and Security Group all refer to one such CPU with a set of security privileges in the system. Depending on the CPU’s capability and platform usage models, a Security Master can: run a rich OS like Linux/Android, be an instance of Virtual Machine (also referred to as Guest OS), where each Virtual Machine forms a Security Domain in software, and run firmware components on Cortex-R5 sub-systems, also known as clusters. A GPIO Pin can be owned by any of the aforementioned software entities of a Security Group. Hence, each GPIO Controller is designed to generate Interrupts for each independent software entity, i.e., one Interrupt per VM. This, in turn, leads to each Interrupt being routed to one of the following types of software stacks:
- CPU Drivers
- CPU Guest OSs
- CPU Trust Zone (TZ, a specialized VM)
- Firmware for any embedded Falcon or Cortex-R5, as in BPMP, SPE, SCE, and APE, with an
external Interrupt from the LIC.
- To support the virtualization requirements, the Non-AON GPIO Controller, in addition, also
maintains different sets of Status Registers, detailing the Interrupt Status per Pin for every

- GPIO Controllers
security domain which is readable by the privileged Security Master, as shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 9.58 Interrupt Status per Security Master**
There is also abstracted Interrupt Status for Virtualization requirements that is one Interrupt Status per Guest OS as shown in the following diagram.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.59 VM Interrupt Status Register per Non-AON GPIO Controller**
#### 9.5.2.5 AON GPIO Controller
The AON subsystem controlled by the SPE has around 20+ GPIO Pins spread in three pin groups, namely AO, AO_HV, and SYS, and controlled by one AON GPIO Controller connected to the local APB bridge in the AON cluster. To ensure that these GPIO Pins are controlled during SC7, all the control and status for these GPIO Pins are maintained as part of the AON cluster, not in the SoC domain. Further, the AON GPIO Controller is not power-gated. The AON GPIO controller has its own separate 64-KiB page to facilitate a flexible usage model during SC7 and run time.

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.2.6 APB Slave Error support
The following register access errors are handled by the GPIO Controller and reported as APB Slave error on the APB bus. The APB Master has provision to log the details of violating transfers for diagnosis purpose. Address Hole Errors. Virtualization access violations.
- To facilitate first-level debugging the logic generates
0xDEAD_1001 in case of address hole Writes or Reads, 0xDEAD_1007 in case of Virtualization access violations, The following diagram shows the high-level structure of this block.
**Figure 9.60 GPIO APB Slave Error Generation**
#### 9.5.2.7 Virtualization
- With the presence of Virtualization, the address translation
- Guest (VA) → Intermediate (VA) → Host (PA)
happens in two phases as illustrated below. Page tables for Guest (VA) → Intermediate (VA) maintained by the Guest OS. Page tables for Intermediate (VA) → Host (PA) maintained by the Hypervisor. NOTE:

- GPIO Controllers
- VA: Virtual address
- PA: Physical Address
Under virtualization, the address space of the registers per GPIO Controller is replicated along with table-based mapping.
- Physically aliasing the GPIO/PinMux address space corresponding to the eight Guest OS's as
supported, with Hypervisor mapping same resources in different physical addresses for the different Guest OS.
- Mapping table/registers fully controlled by Hypervisor to configure each GPIO/PinMux
register to set Guest OS's access privileges. CBB NOC decoding physically aliased address space to same physical block, GPIO Controller.
- GPIO Controller comparing register access to decide the Guest OS's access right of the
register based on Virtualization mapping register settings as explained in the SCR and Virtualization Checker section.
**Figure 9.61 Virtualization Provisioning for GPIOs**
##### 9.5.2.7.1 Virtualization of AON and FSI GPIO Controller
The AON GPIOs are typically owned by the Sensor Processing Engine (SPE) or a single Guest OS, which does not require Virtualization support. The AUTOSAR version targeted in the FSI cluster does not support virtualization and therefore GPIO virtualization is not required. In summary, virtualization provision is not supported for the AON GPIO Controller, nor for the FSI GPIO Controllers.

- GPIO Controllers
### 9.5.3 Registers
This section provides the high-level description of GPIO registers organization, configuration, and status. The configuration details are given for one instance of GPIO Pin, whereas the status details are given for one instance of GPIO Port.
#### 9.5.3.1 System Address Map (AMAP)
- From System Address Map point of view, a 4-KiB address space is reserved for each GPIO
Controller to support a maximum of eight GPIO Ports, each of which maps to a maximum of 8 GPIO
- Pins. Hence, each GPIO Controller maps up to 64 GPIO Pins, depending on the corresponding
physical pin/pad locations and various other floorplan considerations. This 4-KiB space is repeated for each GPIO Controller in a 64-KiB space for each of the following domains:
- Non-AON
- AON
- FSI
- In particular, there are
- Six GPIO Controllers (CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5) in the Non-AON domain,
- One GPIO Controller (AON) in the AON domain, and
Two GPIO Controllers (FSI_CTL0, FSI_CTL1) in the FSI domain. Further, each GPIO Controller's registers are in two categories, Configuration registers and Common registers.
- The Configuration registers are responsible for
- GPIO mode (input vs output) selection and control,
- Debouncing control, and
other features accessible by the Guest OS/VM. The Common Control registers, contrary to what its name may suggest, are privileged registers only accessible by Hypervisor (HV) or the equivalent, but not by the Guest OS/VM, to govern
- Virtualization settings
For Non-AON GPIO Controllers, the address space is physically aliased to support virtualization. Each of these GPIO Controllers groups is mapped in a 64-KiB address page partitioned into 4-KiB sub-pages for each of the individual GPIO Controllers in the group. The 64-KiB page is physically aliased eight times to support eight VM/Guest OS access. The Common registers are mapped in its own 64-KiB address page partitioned into 4-KiB sub-pages for each of the individual GPIO Controllers in the group.

- GPIO Controllers
The following diagrams illustrate the System Address Map organizations of the Non-AON, AON, and FSI GPIO Controllers.
**Figure 9.62 Non-AON GPIO Controllers AMAP Organization**

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.63 AON GPIO Controller AMAP Organization**
**Figure 9.64 FSI GPIO Controller AMAP Organization**
#### 9.5.3.2 Registers Details
The following tables summarize all the GPIO registers for Non-AON and AON GPIO Controllers, as well as FSI GPIO Controllers.

- GPIO Controllers
- Table 9.59 Non-AON and AON GPIO Registers Details
- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_INPUT_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0
- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_<ii>_VM_0<j>_0
- GPIO_CTL<kk>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- GPIO_<k>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- GPIO_<i>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- GPIO_<i>_SPARE_0
NOTE: <i> = A, B, C, D E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC, DD, EE, GG (Non-AON and AON GPIO Ports) <ii> = A, B, C, D E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG (non-AON GPIO Ports) <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7} (GPIO Pin within a GPIO Port) <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (Security Master) <jjj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (VM / Guest OS) <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON (non-AON and AON GPIO Controllers) <kk> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 (non-AON GPIO Controllers)

- GPIO Controllers
- Table 9.60 FSI GPIO Registers Details
- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_<iii>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0
- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- GPIO_FSI<m>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- GPIO_FSI<m>_SPARE_0
NOTE: <iii> = S, T, W, U, V (FSI GPIO Ports) <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7} (GPIO Pin within a GPIO Port) <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (Security Master) <jjj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (VM / Guest OS) <m> = 0, 1 (FSI) (FSI non-AON GPIO Controllers)
##### 9.5.3.2.1 Configuration/Status Registers
- This sub-section provides the description of GPIO Configuration and Status Registers. The
Configuration Registers details are given for one instance of the GPIO Pin, whereas the Status Registers details are given for one instance of the GPIO Port.
- Per-Pin Configuration Registers
This sub-section covers the GPIO Configuration registers for one instance of the GPIO Pin, with the Pin number within a GPIO Port denoted by "0<j>".

- GPIO Controllers
NOTE: There are maximally 8 GPIO Pins in one GPIO Port. And some GPIO Ports have less than 8 GPIO Pins. Hence, <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. This register, available for each GPIO Pin (<j>) in a GPIO Port (<i>, <iii>), configures the given GPIO Pin.
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTIO
N
- This field allows the GPIO input change event to create a timestamp
event.
- When enabled based on the settings in TRIGGER_TYPE & TRIGGER LEVEL
time-stamp trigger is sent out to TSC.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == IN). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- INTERRUPT_FUNCTION
- This field provides the Interrupt selection for the GPIO Input changes
based on trigger type (TRIGGER_TYPE) trigger polarity (TRIGGER LEVEL)
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- When
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == 1)), the Interrupt Status is updated in the Interrupt Status Register (GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0) for all the VM's, based on the settings of
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE &
GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER LEVEL.

- GPIO Controllers
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION
This field provides the Debounce filter selection on the GPIO Input.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE (no Debounce filter). 1 = ENABLE.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION ==
- ENABLE),
the debouncing interval value is defined by (GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD).
- TRIGGER LEVEL
- This field selects the polarity of the GPIO Input trigger for the given
trigger type.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE).
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == NO
- TRIGGER),
this field is irrelevant.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == LEVEL),
0 = Trigger on level Low. 1 = Trigger on Level High.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == SINGLE
- EDGE),
0 = Trigger on Falling Edge. 1 = Trigger on Raising Edge.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == BOTH
- EDGES),
this field is irrelevant.
- TRIGGER_TYPE
3:2 This field selects the GPIO Input trigger type (condition).
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = NO_TRIGGER. 1 = LEVEL. 2 = SINGLE EDGE. 3 = DOUBLE_EDGE (i.e. both Low-High, High-Low edges are detected as event).
- IN_OUT
This field configures the GPIO for Input or Output.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = IN. 1 = OUT.
- GPIO_ENABLE
- This field is the GPIO functionality selection control required for output/
input selection. It acts as a global qualifier for all the functions of the specific GPIO. It is also used for SLCG (Second Level Clock Gating) per pin-based GPIO logic. 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- When Disabled, the GPIO is floated, i.e. both input and output are
disabled. At this point, if PinMux selects the GPIO, the I/O is in High-Z state.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,

- GPIO Controllers
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. This register, available for each GPIO Pin (<j>) in a GPIO Port (<i>, <iii>), specifies the Debounce threshold of the given GPIO Pin.
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- DEBOUNCE_
- THRESHOLD
7:0
- This field holds the Debounce threshold in msec to specify the debounce
interval. 0 = No Debounce. 1 ~ N-1: Debouncing interval of 1 msec to (N-1) msec. NOTE: The actual Debounce interval has an accuracy granularity of 1 msec.
- Hence, when programmed to "1", the actual Debouncing interval is between
1 msec and 2 msec.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. This register, available for each GPIO Pin (<j>) in a GPIO Port (<i>, <iii>), specifies the GPIO Input value of the given GPIO Pin.
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- GPIO_IN
X
- This field holds the GPIO Input value sampled after the specified
Debouncing interval.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE).
- It reflects the external value regardless of (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_
- CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT) setting, so that the externally driven value is
present in this field to aid debugging.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.

- GPIO Controllers
This register, available for each GPIO Pin (<j>) in a GPIO Port (<i>, <iii>), enables the given GPIO Pin to be Output.
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- GPIO_OUT_CONTROL
- This field Indicates whether the GPIO as an output is Floated or Actively
driven.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == OUT)).
- It is floated regardless of the value specified here, When
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == DISABLE) || (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == IN)). 0 = DRIVEN. 1 = FLOATED.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. This register, available for each GPIO Pin (<j>) in a GPIO Port (<i>, <iii>), specifies the GPIO Output value of the given GPIO Pin.
- Field
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
- GPIO_OUT_VALUE
- This field holds the GPIO output value to be driven out when
(GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL == DRIVEN).
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == OUT)).
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. This register, available for each GPIO Pin (<j>) in a GPIO Port (<i>, <iii>), clears the Interrupt at the given GPIO Port/Pin.

- GPIO Controllers
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR
- This field holds the Interrupt clear control bit for clearing the Interrupt at
GPIO Pin <j> in GPIO Port <i>/<iii>.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)). 0 = DON’T CLEAR. 1 = CLEAR.
- Per-Port Status Registers
This sub-section covers the GPIO Status Registers for one instance of the GPIO Port in response to all the 8 Security Masters, NVG0 through NVG7.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. This register, available for each GPIO Port (<i>) and Security Master (<jj>), indicates whether a GPIO Pin in the GPIO Port (<i>) has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt originated from a Security Master (<jj>).
- Field
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
- GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATU
S [<j >*:0]
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO
- Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input
change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR.
- In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging
to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- : <j> = (p -1), where p is the number of GPIO Pins in a given GPIO Port <i>. And <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7}.

- GPIO Controllers
##### 9.5.3.2.2 GPIO Common Control Registers
- This sub-section provides the description of GPIO Common Control registers that support
Virtualization and Security Control features under the control of Hypervisor. These registers are only accessible by the Hypervisor but not by the Guest OS's (VM's) because their address space is not visible to the Guest OS's (VM's).
- Common Control Registers for Virtualization Support
- GPIO_<ii>_VM_0<j>_0,
where <ii> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. This register, available for each Non-AON GPIO Port (<ii>), maps its GPIO Pin (<j>) to VM to specify its accessibility for each Guest OS.
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- VM8
(Guest OS7 Access Permission) 15:14
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM8 (Guest OS7). 00 = No Access for VM8 (Guest OS7). 01 = Read Only Access for VM8 (Guest OS7). 10 = Write Only Access for VM8 (Guest OS7). 11 = FULL access for VM8 (Guest OS7).
- VM7
(Guest OS6 Access Permission) 13:12
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM7 (Guest OS6). 00 = No Access for VM7 (Guest OS6). 01 = Read Only Access for VM7 (Guest OS6). 10 = Write Only Access for VM7 (Guest OS6). 11 = FULL access for VM7 (Guest OS6).
- VM6
(Guest OS5 Access Permission) 11:10
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM6 (Guest OS5). 00 = No Access for VM6 (Guest OS5). 01 = Read Only Access for VM6 (Guest OS5). 10 = Write Only Access for VM6 (Guest OS5). 11 = FULL access for VM6 (Guest OS5).
- VM5
(Guest OS4 Access Permission) 9:8
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM5 (Guest OS4). 00 = No Access for VM5 (Guest OS4). 01 = Read Only Access for VM5 (Guest OS4). 10 = Write Only Access for VM5 (Guest OS4). 11 = FULL access for VM5 (Guest OS4).
- VM4
(Guest OS3 Access Permission) 7:6
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM4 (Guest OS3). 00 = No Access for VM4 (Guest OS3). 01 = Read Only Access for VM4 (Guest OS3). 10 = Write Only Access for VM4 (Guest OS3). 11 = FULL access for VM4 (Guest OS3).
- VM3
(Guest OS2 Access Permission) 5:4
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM3 (Guest OS2). 00 = No Access for VM3 (Guest OS2). 01 = Read Only Access for VM3 (Guest OS2). 10 = Write Only Access for VM3 (Guest OS2). 11 = FULL access for VM3 (Guest OS2).

- GPIO Controllers
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- VM2
(Guest OS1 Access Permission) 3:2
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM2 (Guest OS1). 00 = No Access for VM2 (Guest OS1). 01 = Read Only Access for VM2 (Guest OS1). 10 = Write Only Access for VM2 (Guest OS1). 11 = FULL access for VM2 (Guest OS1).
- VM1
(Guest OS0 Access Permission) 1:0
- FULL
This field specifies the access permission for VM1 (Guest OS0). 00 = No Access for VM1 (Guest OS0). 01 = Read Only Access for VM1 (Guest OS0). 10 = Write Only Access for VM1 (Guest OS0). 11 = FULL access for VM1 (Guest OS0).
- GPIO_CTL<kk>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0,
where <kk> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. This register, available for each Non-AON GPIO Controller (<kk>), indicates the Interrupt Status from each of the VM (Guest OS).
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM
7:0
- Each bit of this field Indicates the Interrupt Status whether any GPIO
owned by a specific Guest OS resulted an Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for VM1 (Guest OS0),
- Bit 1 is for VM2 (Guest OS1),
- Bit 2 is for VM3 (Guest OS2),
- Bit 3 is for VM4 (Guest OS3),
- Bit 4 is for VM5 (Guest OS4),
- Bit 5 is for VM6 (Guest OS5),
- Bit 6 is for VM7 (Guest OS6),
Bit 7 is for VM8 (Guest OS7). 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR.
- GPIO_<k>/FSI<m>_ ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0,
where <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON, and <iii> = 0, 1. This register, available for each GPIO Controller (<k> & <m>), is the ICG (Internal Clock Gate) override enable configuration register for the GPIO Controller.

- GPIO Controllers
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- ICG_EN
- DISABLE
This field enables ICG Override. 0 = ICG Override Disabled. 1 = ICG Override Enabled.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <jjj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. (VM / Guest OS) This register, available for each GPIO Port (<i> & <iii>) and VM (<jjj>), indicates whether a GPIO Pin in the GPIO Port has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt.
- Field
- Bit
- Default
- Description
- VAL
[<j>*:0]
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jjj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- : <j> = (p -1), where p is the number of GPIO Pins in a given GPIO Port <i>. And <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7}.
### 9.5.4 Programming Model
The section discusses the programming model of the GPIO Controllers excluding any Security- related topics.
#### 9.5.4.1 GPIO Pad Control Initialization
A GPIO Controller manages a few variants of MPIO/LSIO pads. This means that one such MPIO/ LSIO pad can function as I2C, UART, SPI, or GPIO. Every physical pin/pad has its control registers to fine tune the electrical characteristics and turn on the input receiver circuits, and etc. Refer to the PinMux chapter in this TRM for details on the initialization of Pad and PinMux controls for GPIO mode.

- GPIO Controllers
The discussions regarding GPIO input/Output/Bi-directional operations in the following sub- sections are illustrated for GPIO_CTL0 and based on the premise that proper initialization of registers in the PADCTL address space are already taken care of as needed.
#### 9.5.4.2 GPIO Input Configuration
1. Enabling the Clocks for the specific GPIO Controller. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_GPIO_CTL0_0.SWR_GPIO_CTL0_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_GPIO_CTL0_0.CLK_ENB_GPIO_CTL0 = 1) NOTE:
- Clocks are enabled by default during cold boot and few GPIOs are enabled by Boot
Loader.
- However, this step may be required by the run-time driver as Clocks may have been
disabled as result of run-time power saving. 2. Configuring the GPIO input path. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT = IN)
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTION/
INTERRUPT_FUNCTION per use case requirements.
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_LEVEL/TRIGGER_TYPE/
DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION per use case requirements. 3. Setting GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0 with appropriate value based on the debounce requirements of the platform. 4. Ensuring that the AON TSC is configured for generating the msec pulse. 5. Setting (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>.GPIO_ENABLE = ENABLE) to complete the GPIO configuration and enable GPIO. 6. Starting Polling/Reading GPIO_<i>_INPUT_0<j>.GPIO_IN to read the GPIO input value. NOTE:
- When Interrupt is enabled, Interrupt is triggered based on GPIO input processing
selection. 7. Optional step:
- Polling GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0 for a specific Security Master (<jj>) when
proper Interrupt triggers are configured.

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.4.3 GPIO Output/Bi-directional Configuration
1. Enabling e the Clocks for the specific GPIO Controller. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_GPIO_CTL0_0.SWR_GPIO_CTL0_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_GPIO_CTL0_0.CLK_ENB_GPIO_CTL0 = 1) NOTE:
- Clocks are enabled by default during cold boot and few GPIOs are enabled by Boot
Loader.
- However, this step may be required by the run-time driver as Clocks may have been
disabled as result of run-time power saving. 2. Configuring the GPIO direction. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT = OUT) NOTE:
- OUT configuration does not block the input path. Hence, the GPIO so configured also
serves as bi-directional. 3. Configuring the GPIO input path (for bi-directional). (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT = IN)
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTION/
INTERRUPT_FUNCTION per use case requirements.
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_LEVEL/TRIGGER_TYPE/
DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION per use case requirements. 4. Setting GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0 with appropriate value based on the debounce requirements of the platform. 5. Ensuring that the AON TSC is configured for generating the msec pulse. (Not required for GPIO output mode). 6. Setting value to be driven out. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_VALUE = value) 7. Configuring GPO Pin to DRIVE state to drive the value actively. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL = DRIVEN) NOTE:

- GPIO Controllers
- To float the bus, (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL =
FLOATED). 8. Setting for Bi-directional. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE = ENABLE) 9. Toggling GPIO. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_VALUE = updated value) 10. Starting Polling/Reading GPIO_<i>_INPUT_0<j>.GPIO_IN to read the GPIO input value. NOTE: This is applicable only for Bi-directional mode.
- When Interrupt is enabled, Interrupt is triggered based on GPIO input processing
selection. 11. Optional step:
- Polling GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0 for a specific Security Master (<jj>) when
proper Interrupt triggers are configured.
#### 9.5.4.4 GPIO Interrupts
##### 9.5.4.4.1 Enabling Interrupts for GPIO
Enabling the basic Interrupt functionality for a specific GPIO. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION = ENABLE)
##### 9.5.4.4.2 Interrupt Routing to Multiple VMs
Each GPIO Controller has eight physical Interrupts connected to the LIC. The LIC has the capability to route the individual Interrupts to any security domain or software entities via the its CPU's external Interrupts or via the advanced vGIC (Virtualization capable Generic Interrupt Controller). Based on the platform usage and use case requirements, software is required to identify the mapping of GPIO Pins to a Guest OS. For each of such Pins, Interrupt from the GPIO Controller managing that pin/port needs to be enabled for the Guest OS (all referred as VM) by
- Configuring the specific bit position in the given GPIO_<i>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
register to route the Interrupt event to one of the VMs.
- Enabling the corresponding GPIO Controller in the LIC to redirect to the specific Security
Master.

- GPIO Controllers
This ROUTE_MAPPING register, available for each GPIO Port by every GPIO Controller, is part of the common address space, so Hypervisor can configure it in a Virtualized environment. The ROUTE_MAPPING register is typically programmed during the Boot phase once for all the GPIO Controllers. As part of the SC7 recovery, it is programmed during SC7 exit for all GPIO Controllers excepting the AON GPIO Controller. During SC7 exit, the AON registers are not reprogrammed. When different values are programmed in this register in a toggle fashion, there may be glitches on the Interrupt depending on whether the GPIO is toggled during at the same time. For details of the LIC, refer to the Interrupt Controllers chapter in this TRM.
- GPIO Interrupts and Virtualization
In a system that supports virtualization, it is desirable to have a separate Interrupt input to the vGIC for each VM that controls one or more GPIOs. When separate GPIO Interrupts go to the vGIC for each VM, the Hypervisor can rely on the Interrupt information from the vGIC to schedule the correct VM. Based on the “Interrupt Routing Bitmap” maintained by the Hypervisor, the Hypervisor maps all the GPIO's belonging to a VM to one of the 8 available Interrupt lines, then routes this Interrupt line to the VM via vGIC. Here is the flow:
- Hypervisor receives the Interrupt from the GPIO Controller
1. Reads the Interrupt Status Register in vGIC. 2. Programs the vGIC to generate a virtual Interrupt for the Guest OS. 3. Schedules the Guest OS as needed.
- Guest OS
1. Reads the Interrupt Status in vGIC to determine the source of the Interrupt. 2. Reads the GPIO Controller to determine which GPIO Pin caused the Interrupt. 3. Calls the appropriate ISR. There are 8 physical Interrupts from every GPIO Controller with each such Interrupt directly assigned to the Guest. There is no need for Hypervisor to perform any sort of GPIO handling except for setting up the protection. However, when more Interrupts from a GPIO Controller are mapped to specific Security Masters like SCE/BPMP, and VMs are left with fewer Interrupts more than the number of VM's, the Hypervisor’s ISR needs to read the following registers GPIO_CTL<kk>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0. GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0. then based on the read-outs, inject the virtual IRQ to the Guest that needs attention. For details of the vGIC, refer to the vGIC chapter in this TRM.

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.4.5 Enabling Security Attributes for GPIO Registers
Please ask your NVIDIA representative for details.
#### 9.5.4.6 GPIOs in Loopback Mode
When the GPIO output is actively driven, software can immediately poll, i.e. Configure the GPIO Pin as Bi-directional. 1. Drive the output value to "0" or "1". 1. Read the corresponding GPIO IN register. 1. When the GPIO output is weak-pullup or weak-pull down, software cannot immediately read back the GPIO input pin state. This is because the GPIO input value propagation incurs an RC delay (charge/discharge), and it takes time to reflect the GPIO output value propagated as input value in GPIO IN register. This means that software must introduce a delay before reading the GPIO IN register. To be on the safe side, we consider worst values like R = 100 KOhm and C = 10 pF resulting in an RC delay of ~1 µs. The typical wait time needs to be 5 RC delays, hence 5 µs. Further, to accommodate all the PVT (Process, Voltage, Temperature) corner cases, software is recommended to impose a 20 µs delay in such loopback scenarios. For loopbacks to different GPIOs at the board level and considering trace delays, additional margins may need to be added to the typical delay. The proper steps to read the GPIO input is thus: Configure the Pin as GPIO Bi-directional. Set Driving output control selection to FLOATED. (Internal pullup or board-level pullup as per platform requirements and configuration). Wait for 20 µs. Read the corresponding GPIO IN register.
#### 9.5.4.7 Disabling Specific GPIO
When a GPIO Pin is removed from the GPIO group the following sequences need to be performed. The step to float the GPIO is explicitly added as part of the GPIO disabling sequence for full backward compatibility of hardware behavior. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL = FLOATED). (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>.GPIO_ENABLE = DISABLE).

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.4.8 GPIO Programming Entities
All the registers common to a GPIO Controller are programmed by the Boot Loader in the normal system environment, and by the Hypervisor in the Virtualized system environment. Some of the registers like top-level security attribute are programmed by the Boot Loader in all the systems.
#### 9.5.4.9 Interrupt Handling Options and Guidelines
Few additional aspects with respect to GPIO Interrupt handling with Virtualization and Security protection:
- The GPIO Pin to Interrupt associated with a CPU is decoupled from the CPU that owns the
configuration control of GPIO Pin. This enables a wide variety of usage models, like some CPUs behaving only as owner for Interrupts but not for configuration, etc.
- No device (including an Interrupt controller) can be modified by more than one software
- Stack. Any other software stack that wants to use the device must send a message to the
holding software stack to act on its behalf.
### 9.5.5 Platform Aspects
#### 9.5.5.1 De-bounce Filter Threshold Selection
The GPIO Controller implements hardware filter to filter out transient signals possibly caused by GPIO used for mechanical switches and contacts. When the switch is changed, or key is pressed on a Keyboard device, multiple noisy signals are generated. For digital logic to properly interpret a signal or level change, such noisy signals need to be filtered to be a clean logic (0/1) signal. Otherwise, misinterpretation of such unfiltered signal may lead to wrong trigger notification decision for the application. The bouncy signal duration depends on the mechanical device and type of switch. System software is required to incorporate the platform designer's assistance to specify the de-bounce filtering requirements including level/pulse trigger (signal low to high or vice versa). At times, there may be a filter on the board, or a filtered output is readily available from the switching/KB or similar device. The filter threshold depends solely on the extent of the duration required to mask out the transient state of the device's output.
#### 9.5.5.2 GPIO Usage Restrictions in Platforms
This section summarizes the limitations that arise in the way of assigning GPIOs to different Guest OS's and Security Masters in the Platform usage scenario. The limitation arises from the fact that we have only 8 Interrupts from a GPIO Controller managing 30 to 40 GPIO Pins.

- GPIO Registers
To ensure that the GPIO Pin assignments do not result in limitations such as short of Interrupts, the platform designers working on the GPIO Pin assignment or any software entity instrumenting the GPIO Pin assignment must make sure that either statically (during system Boot) or dynamically (during run-time assignment) no more than 8 Interrupt sources are assigned to one GPIO Controller. Exceeding the limitation requires the handling software to be enhanced. An option to work around the physical Interrupt limitation is to have the GPIO Interrupts daisy- chained from one Security Master (software stack) to another provided the latency incurred is acceptable.
##### 9.5.5.2.1 Bit Banging Use Cases
Bit banging is about using the software-driven GPIO's to generate arbitrary waveforms, e.g. PWM, I2C signal, or any similar proprietary bus protocol waveforms. It is possible for a platform designer to use GPIOs for such purposes when in lack of real I2C or PWM port for instance. Of course, there is a limitation on the toggle rate of the GPIO. This is because the software-managed GPIO toggle rate is governed by the GPIO controller register access time that is about 400 ns to 500 ns (round trip latency based on the assumption that cbb clock = APB clock = CPU clock = 408 MHz).
### 9.5.6 GPIO Registers
Refer to Reading Register Tables in the Introduction section for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.
#### 9.5.6.1 GPIO Common Control Registers
NOTE:
- All Non-AON Common Control Registers, i.e. GPIO_<ii>,
where <ii> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, share the same base address under the Block Name GPI_CTL_COMMON,
- All AON Common Control Registers, i.e. GPIO_<iii>,
where <iii> = AA, BB, CC, DD, EE, and GG, share the same base address under the Block Name AON_GPIO_0,
- For the base address of Non-AON GPIO Common Control Registers (GPI_CTL_COMMON)
and AON GPIO Common Control Registers (AON_GPIO_0), please refer to the System Address Map in this TRM.

- GPIO Common Control Registers
NOTE:
- The binary “x” is turned to “0” for the Reset and PROD hex value. Hence, in some cases, a
mismatch occurs between the displayed hexadecimal and binary value. A bit Reset value as “x” or “Undefined” actually means that the bit could be either “0” or “1” after Reset, whereas a bit PROD value as “x” or “Don’t-care” means that either “0” or “1” can be written to the bit by software Initialization.
- GPIO_<ii>_VM_0<j>_0,
where <ii> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. <kk> = 0, when <ii> = A, B, AC, AD,
- 1, when <ii> = X, Y, Z,
- 2, when <ii> = M, N P, Q, R,
- 3, when <ii> = K, , AE, AF, AG,
- 4, when <ii> = G, H, I,
- 5, when <ii> = C, D, E, F, J.
- GPIO_A_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x0
- GPIO_A_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x8
- GPIO_A_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x10
- GPIO_A_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x18
- GPIO_A_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x20
- GPIO_A_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x28
- GPIO_A_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x30
- GPIO_A_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x38
- GPIO_AC_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x40

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_AC_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x48
- GPIO_AC_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x50
- GPIO_AC_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x58
- GPIO_AC_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x60
- GPIO_AC_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x68
- GPIO_AC_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x70
- GPIO_AC_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x78
- GPIO_AD_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x80
- GPIO_AD_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x88
- GPIO_AD_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x90
- GPIO_AD_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x98
- GPIO_B_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0xc0
- GPIO_X_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x1000
- GPIO_X_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x1008
- GPIO_X_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x1010
- GPIO_X_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x1018

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_X_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x1020
- GPIO_X_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x1028
- GPIO_X_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x1030
- GPIO_X_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x1038
- GPIO_Y_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x1040
- GPIO_Y_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x1048
- GPIO_Y_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x1050
- GPIO_Y_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x1058
- GPIO_Y_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x1060
- GPIO_Y_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x1068
- GPIO_Y_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x1070
- GPIO_Y_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x1078
- GPIO_Z_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x1080
- GPIO_Z_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x1088
- GPIO_Z_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x1090
- GPIO_Z_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x1098

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_Z_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x10a0
- GPIO_Z_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a8
- GPIO_Z_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x10b0
- GPIO_Z_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x10b8
- GPIO_M_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x2000
- GPIO_M_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x2008
- GPIO_M_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x2010
- GPIO_M_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x2018
- GPIO_M_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x2020
- GPIO_M_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x2028
- GPIO_M_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x2030
- GPIO_M_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x2038
- GPIO_N_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x2040
- GPIO_N_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x2048
- GPIO_N_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x2050
- GPIO_N_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x2058

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_N_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x2060
- GPIO_N_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x2068
- GPIO_N_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x2070
- GPIO_N_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x2078
- GPIO_P_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x2080
- GPIO_P_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x2088
- GPIO_P_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x2090
- GPIO_P_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x2098
- GPIO_P_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x20a0
- GPIO_P_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x20a8
- GPIO_P_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x20b0
- GPIO_P_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x20b8
- GPIO_Q_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x20c0
- GPIO_Q_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x20c8
- GPIO_Q_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x20d0
- GPIO_Q_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x20d8

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_Q_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x20e0
- GPIO_Q_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x20e8
- GPIO_Q_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x20f0
- GPIO_Q_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x20f8
- GPIO_R_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x2100
- GPIO_R_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x2108
- GPIO_R_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x2110
- GPIO_R_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x2118
- GPIO_R_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x2120
- GPIO_R_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x2128
- GPIO_K_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x3000
- GPIO_K_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x3008
- GPIO_K_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x3010
- GPIO_K_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x3018
- GPIO_K_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x3020
- GPIO_K_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x3028

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_K_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x3030
- GPIO_K_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x3038
- GPIO_L_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x3040
- GPIO_L_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x3048
- GPIO_L_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x3050
- GPIO_L_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x3058
- GPIO_AG_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x3080
- GPIO_AG_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x3088
- GPIO_AG_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x3090
- GPIO_AG_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x3098
- GPIO_AG_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x30a0
- GPIO_AG_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x30a8
- GPIO_AG_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x30b0
- GPIO_AG_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x30b8
- GPIO_AE_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x30c0
- GPIO_AE_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x30c8

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_AF_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x3100
- GPIO_AF_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x3108
- GPIO_AF_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x3110
- GPIO_AF_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x3118
- GPIO_G_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x4000
- GPIO_G_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x4008
- GPIO_G_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x4010
- GPIO_G_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x4018
- GPIO_G_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x4020
- GPIO_G_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x4028
- GPIO_G_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x4030
- GPIO_G_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x4038
- GPIO_H_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x4040
- GPIO_H_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x4048
- GPIO_H_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x4050
- GPIO_H_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x4058

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_H_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x4060
- GPIO_H_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x4068
- GPIO_H_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x4070
- GPIO_H_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x4078
- GPIO_I_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x4080
- GPIO_I_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x4088
- GPIO_I_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x4090
- GPIO_I_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x4098
- GPIO_I_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x40a0
- GPIO_I_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x40a8
- GPIO_I_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x40b0
- GPIO_J_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x5000
- GPIO_J_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x5008
- GPIO_J_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x5010
- GPIO_J_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x5018
- GPIO_J_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x5020

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_J_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x5028
- GPIO_C_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x5040
- GPIO_C_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x5048
- GPIO_C_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x5050
- GPIO_C_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x5058
- GPIO_C_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x5060
- GPIO_C_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x5068
- GPIO_C_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x5070
- GPIO_C_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x5078
- GPIO_D_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x5080
- GPIO_D_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x5088
- GPIO_D_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x5090
- GPIO_D_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x5098
- GPIO_E_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x50c0
- GPIO_E_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x50c8
- GPIO_E_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x50d0

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_E_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x50d8
- GPIO_E_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x50e0
- GPIO_E_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x50e8
- GPIO_E_VM_06_0
- Offset: 0x50f0
- GPIO_E_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x50f8
- GPIO_E_VM_07_0
- Offset: 0x50f8
- GPIO_F_VM_00_0
- Offset: 0x5100
- GPIO_F_VM_01_0
- Offset: 0x5108
- GPIO_F_VM_02_0
- Offset: 0x5110
- GPIO_F_VM_03_0
- Offset: 0x5118
- GPIO_F_VM_04_0
- Offset: 0x5120
- GPIO_F_VM_05_0
- Offset: 0x5128
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_CTL<kk>_VM_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x0000ffff (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,1111,1111,1111,1111)

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
15:14 0x3 VM8: This field specifies the access permission for VM8 (Guest OS7). 00 = No Access for VM8 (Guest OS7). 01 = Read Only Access for VM8 (Guest OS7). 10 = Write Only Access for VM8 (Guest OS7). 11 = FULL access for VM8 (Guest OS7). 13:12 0x3 VM7: This field specifies the access permission for VM7 (Guest OS6). 00 = No Access for VM7 (Guest OS6). 01 = Read Only Access for VM7 (Guest OS6). 10 = Write Only Access for VM7 (Guest OS6). 11 = FULL access for VM7 (Guest OS6). 11:10 0x3 VM6: This field specifies the access permission for VM6 (Guest OS5). 00 = No Access for VM6 (Guest OS5). 01 = Read Only Access for VM6 (Guest OS5). 10 = Write Only Access for VM6 (Guest OS5). 11 = FULL access for VM6 (Guest OS5). 9:8 0x3 VM5: This field specifies the access permission for VM5 (Guest OS4). 00 = No Access for VM5 (Guest OS4). 01 = Read Only Access for VM5 (Guest OS4). 10 = Write Only Access for VM5 (Guest OS4). 11 = FULL access for VM5 (Guest OS4). 7:6 0x3 VM4: This field specifies the access permission for VM4 (Guest OS3). 00 = No Access for VM4 (Guest OS3). 01 = Read Only Access for VM4 (Guest OS3). 10 = Write Only Access for VM4 (Guest OS3). 11 = FULL access for VM4 (Guest OS3). 5:4 0x3 VM3: This field specifies the access permission for VM3 (Guest OS2). 00 = No Access for VM3 (Guest OS2). 01 = Read Only Access for VM3 (Guest OS2). 10 = Write Only Access for VM3 (Guest OS2). 11 = FULL access for VM3 (Guest OS2). 3:2 0x3 VM2: This field specifies the access permission for VM2 (Guest OS1). 00 = No Access for VM2 (Guest OS1). 01 = Read Only Access for VM2 (Guest OS1). 10 = Write Only Access for VM2 (Guest OS1). 11 = FULL access for VM2 (Guest OS1). 1:0 0x3 VM1: This field specifies the access permission for VM1 (Guest OS0). 00 = No Access for VM1 (Guest OS0). 01 = Read Only Access for VM1 (Guest OS0). 10 = Write Only Access for VM1 (Guest OS0). 11 = FULL access for VM1 (Guest OS0).

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_CTL<kk>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0,
where <kk> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
- GPIO_CTL0_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- Offset: 0x808
- GPIO_CTL1_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- Offset: 0x1808
- GPIO_CTL2_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- Offset: 0x2808
- GPIO_CTL3_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- Offset: 0x3808
- GPIO_CTL4_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- Offset: 0x4808
- GPIO_CTL5_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- Offset: 0x5808
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_CTL<kk>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM:
- Each bit of this field Indicates the Interrupt Status whether any GPIO
owned by a specific Guest OS resulted an Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for VM1 (Guest OS0),
- Bit 1 is for VM2 (Guest OS1),
- Bit 2 is for VM3 (Guest OS2),
- Bit 3 is for VM4 (Guest OS3),
- Bit 4 is for VM5 (Guest OS4),
- Bit 5 is for VM6 (Guest OS5),
- Bit 6 is for VM7 (Guest OS6),
Bit 7 is for VM8 (Guest OS7). 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR.
- GPIO_<k>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0,
where <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON.

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_CTL0_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x810
- GPIO_CTL1_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x1810
- GPIO_CTL2_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x2810
- GPIO_CTL3_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x3810
- GPIO_CTL4_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x4810
- GPIO_CTL5_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x5810
- GPIO_AON_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x0810
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE: This field enables ICG Override. 0 = ICG Override Disabled. 1 = ICG Override Enabled.
- GPIO_<i>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC, DD,
- EE, GG,
<jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, (Security master) <jjj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, (VM / Guest OS) and <k> = CTL0, when <i> = A, B, AC, AD,
- CTL1, when <i> = X, Y, Z,
- CTL2, when <i> = M, N P, Q, R,
- CTL3, when <i> = K, , AE, AF, AG,

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- CTL4, when <i> = G, H, I,
- CTL5, when <i> = C, D, E, F, J,
- AON, when <i>= AA, BB, CC, DD, EE, GG.
- GPIO_A_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x814
- GPIO_A_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x818
- GPIO_A_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x81c
- GPIO_A_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x820
- GPIO_A_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x824
- GPIO_A_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x828
- GPIO_A_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x82c
- GPIO_A_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x830
- GPIO_AC_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x834
- GPIO_AC_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x838
- GPIO_AC_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x83c
- GPIO_AC_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x840
- GPIO_AC_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x844
- GPIO_AC_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x848
- GPIO_AC_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x84c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_AC_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x850
- GPIO_X_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1814
- GPIO_X_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1818
- GPIO_X_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x181c
- GPIO_X_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1820
- GPIO_X_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1824
- GPIO_X_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1828
- GPIO_X_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x182c
- GPIO_X_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1830
- GPIO_Y_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1834
- GPIO_Y_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1838
- GPIO_Y_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x183c
- GPIO_Y_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1840
- GPIO_Y_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1844
- GPIO_Y_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1848
- GPIO_Y_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x184c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_Y_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1850
- GPIO_Z_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1854
- GPIO_Z_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1858
- GPIO_Z_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x185c
- GPIO_Z_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1860
- GPIO_Z_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1864
- GPIO_Z_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1868
- GPIO_Z_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x186c
- GPIO_Z_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x1870
- GPIO_M_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2814
- GPIO_M_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2818
- GPIO_M_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x281c
- GPIO_M_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2820
- GPIO_M_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2824
- GPIO_M_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2828
- GPIO_M_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x282c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_M_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2830
- GPIO_N_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2834
- GPIO_N_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2838
- GPIO_N_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x283c
- GPIO_N_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2840
- GPIO_N_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2844
- GPIO_N_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2848
- GPIO_N_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x284c
- GPIO_N_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2850
- GPIO_P_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2854
- GPIO_P_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2858
- GPIO_P_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x285c
- GPIO_P_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2860
- GPIO_P_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2864
- GPIO_P_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2868
- GPIO_P_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x286c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_P_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2870
- GPIO_Q_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2874
- GPIO_Q_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2878
- GPIO_Q_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x287c
- GPIO_Q_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2880
- GPIO_Q_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2884
- GPIO_Q_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2888
- GPIO_Q_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x288c
- GPIO_Q_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2890
- GPIO_K_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3814
- GPIO_K_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3818
- GPIO_K_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x381c
- GPIO_K_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3820
- GPIO_K_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3824
- GPIO_K_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3828
- GPIO_K_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x382c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_K_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3830
- GPIO_AG_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3854
- GPIO_AG_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3858
- GPIO_AG_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x385c
- GPIO_AG_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3860
- GPIO_AG_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3864
- GPIO_AG_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3868
- GPIO_AG_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x386c
- GPIO_AG_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3870
- GPIO_G_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4814
- GPIO_G_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4818
- GPIO_G_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x481c
- GPIO_G_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4820
- GPIO_G_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4824
- GPIO_G_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4828
- GPIO_G_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x482c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_G_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4830
- GPIO_H_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4834
- GPIO_H_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4838
- GPIO_H_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x483c
- GPIO_H_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4840
- GPIO_H_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4844
- GPIO_H_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4848
- GPIO_H_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x484c
- GPIO_H_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4850
- GPIO_C_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5834
- GPIO_C_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5838
- GPIO_C_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x583c
- GPIO_C_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5840
- GPIO_C_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5844
- GPIO_C_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5848
- GPIO_C_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x584c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_C_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5850
- GPIO_E_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5874
- GPIO_E_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5878
- GPIO_E_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x587c
- GPIO_E_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5880
- GPIO_E_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5884
- GPIO_E_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5888
- GPIO_E_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x588c
- GPIO_E_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5890
- GPIO_EE_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0814
- GPIO_EE_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0818
- GPIO_EE_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x81c
- GPIO_EE_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0820
- GPIO_EE_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0824
- GPIO_EE_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0828
- GPIO_EE_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x082c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_EE_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0830
- GPIO_CC_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0854
- GPIO_CC_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0858
- GPIO_CC_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x085c
- GPIO_CC_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0860
- GPIO_CC_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0864
- GPIO_CC_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0868
- GPIO_CC_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x086c
- GPIO_CC_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0870
- GPIO_AA_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0894
- GPIO_AA_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0898
- GPIO_AA_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x089c
- GPIO_AA_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08a0
- GPIO_AA_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08a4
- GPIO_AA_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08a8
- GPIO_AA_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08ac

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_AA_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08b0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_I_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4854
- GPIO_I_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4858
- GPIO_I_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x485c
- GPIO_I_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4860
- GPIO_I_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4864
- GPIO_I_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4868
- GPIO_I_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x486c
- GPIO_I_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x4870
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000)

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
6:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_R_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2894
- GPIO_R_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x2898
- GPIO_R_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x289c
- GPIO_R_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x28a0
- GPIO_R_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x28a4
- GPIO_R_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x28a8
- GPIO_R_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x28ac
- GPIO_R_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x28b0
- GPIO_J_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5814
- GPIO_J_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5818
- GPIO_J_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x581c
- GPIO_J_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5820
- GPIO_J_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5824

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_J_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5828
- GPIO_J_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x582c
- GPIO_J_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5830
- GPIO_F_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5894
- GPIO_F_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5898
- GPIO_F_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x589c
- GPIO_F_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x58a0
- GPIO_F_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x58a4
- GPIO_F_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x58a8
- GPIO_F_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x58ac
- GPIO_F_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x58b0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
5:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_AD_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x854
- GPIO_AD_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x858
- GPIO_AD_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x85c
- GPIO_AD_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x860
- GPIO_AD_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x864
- GPIO_AD_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x868
- GPIO_AD_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x86c
- GPIO_AD_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x870
- GPIO_L_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3834
- GPIO_L_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3838
- GPIO_L_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x383c
- GPIO_L_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3840
- GPIO_L_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3844
- GPIO_L_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3848
- GPIO_L_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x384c
- GPIO_L_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3850

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_AF_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3894
- GPIO_AF_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3898
- GPIO_AF_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x389c
- GPIO_AF_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x38a0
- GPIO_AF_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x38a4
- GPIO_AF_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x38a8
- GPIO_AF_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x38ac
- GPIO_AF_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x38b0
- GPIO_D_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5854
- GPIO_D_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5858
- GPIO_D_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x585c
- GPIO_D_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5860
- GPIO_D_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5864
- GPIO_D_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5868
- GPIO_D_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x586c
- GPIO_D_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x5870

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_BB_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08b4
- GPIO_BB_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08b8
- GPIO_BB_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08bc
- GPIO_BB_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08c0
- GPIO_BB_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08c4
- GPIO_BB_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08c8
- GPIO_BB_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08cc
- GPIO_BB_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x08d0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
3:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_DD_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0874
- GPIO_DD_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0878
- GPIO_DD_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x087c

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_DD_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0880
- GPIO_DD_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0884
- GPIO_DD_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0888
- GPIO_DD_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x088c
- GPIO_DD_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0890
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
2:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_AE_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3874
- GPIO_AE_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3878
- GPIO_AE_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x387c
- GPIO_AE_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3880
- GPIO_AE_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3884
- GPIO_AE_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3888

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_AE_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x388c
- GPIO_AE_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x3890
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
1:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_B_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x874
- GPIO_B_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x878
- GPIO_B_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x87c
- GPIO_B_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x880
- GPIO_B_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x884
- GPIO_B_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x888
- GPIO_B_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x88c
- GPIO_B_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x890
- GPIO_GG_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0834

- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_GG_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0838
- GPIO_GG_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x083c
- GPIO_GG_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0840
- GPIO_GG_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0844
- GPIO_GG_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0848
- GPIO_GG_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x084c
- GPIO_GG_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x0850
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<k>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_<k>_SPARE_0,
where <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON.
- GPIO_CTL0_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x894
- GPIO_CTL1_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x1874

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_CTL2_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x28b4
- GPIO_CTL3_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x38b4
- GPIO_CTL4_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x4874
- GPIO_CTL5_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x58b4
- GPIO_AON_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x08d4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
15:0 0x0
- SPARE
#### 9.5.6.2 GPIO Control Registers
NOTE:
- All Non-AON, i.e. GPIO_<ii>, Control Registers share the same base address under the name
- GPIO_CTL,
where <ii> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AC, AD, AE, AF, and AG.
- All AON, i.e. GPIO_<iii>, Control Registers share the same base address under the name
- AON_GPIO_0,
where <iii> = AA, BB, CC, DD, EE, and GG.
- For the base address of Non-AON GPIO Control Registers (GPIO_CTL) and AON GPIO Control
Registers (AON_GPIO_0), please refer to the System Address Map in this TRM. NOTE:
- The binary “x” is turned to “0” for the Reset and PROD hex value. Hence, in some cases, a
mismatch occurs between the displayed hexadecimal and binary value. A bit Reset value as “x” or “Undefined” actually means that the bit could be either “0” or “1” after Reset, whereas a bit

- GPIO Control Registers
PROD value as “x” or “Don’t-care” means that either “0” or “1” can be written to the bit by software Initialization.
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC, DD,
- EE, GG and
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x10000
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x10020
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x10040
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x10060
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x10080
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x100a0
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x100c0
- GPIO_A_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x100e0
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x10200
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x10220
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x10240
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x10260

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x10280
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x102a0
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x102c0
- GPIO_AC_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x102e0
- GPIO_AD_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x10400
- GPIO_AD_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x10420
- GPIO_AD_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x10440
- GPIO_AD_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x10460
- GPIO_B_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x10600
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x11000
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x11020
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x11040
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x11060
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x11080
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x110a0
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x110c0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_X_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x110e0
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x11200
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x11220
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x11240
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x11260
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x11280
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x112a0
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x112c0
- GPIO_Y_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x112e0
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x11400
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x11420
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x11440
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x11460
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x11480
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x114a0
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x114c0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Z_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x114e0
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x12000
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x12020
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x12040
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x12060
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x12080
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x120a0
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x120c0
- GPIO_M_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x120e0
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x12200
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x12220
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x12240
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x12260
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x12280
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x122a0
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x122c0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_N_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x122e0
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x12400
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x12420
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x12440
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x12460
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x12480
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x124a0
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x124c0
- GPIO_P_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x124e0
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x12600
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x12620
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x12640
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x12660
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x12680
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x126a0
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x126c0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Q_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x126e0
- GPIO_R_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x12800
- GPIO_R_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x12820
- GPIO_R_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x12840
- GPIO_R_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x12860
- GPIO_R_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x12880
- GPIO_R_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x128a0
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x13000
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x13020
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x13040
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x13060
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x13080
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x130a0
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x130c0
- GPIO_K_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x130e0
- GPIO_L_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x13200

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_L_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x13220
- GPIO_L_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x13240
- GPIO_L_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x13260
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x13400
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x13420
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x13440
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x13460
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x13480
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x134a0
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x134c0
- GPIO_AG_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x134e0
- GPIO_AE_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x13600
- GPIO_AE_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x13620
- GPIO_AF_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x13800
- GPIO_AF_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x13820
- GPIO_AF_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x13840

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AF_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x13860
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x14000
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x14020
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x14040
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x14060
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x14080
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x140a0
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x140c0
- GPIO_G_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x140e0
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x14200
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x14220
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x14240
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x14260
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x14280
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x142a0
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x142c0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_H_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x142e0
- GPIO_I_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x14400
- GPIO_I_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x14420
- GPIO_I_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x14440
- GPIO_I_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x14460
- GPIO_I_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x14480
- GPIO_I_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x144a0
- GPIO_I_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x144c0
- GPIO_J_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x15000
- GPIO_J_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x15020
- GPIO_J_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x15040
- GPIO_J_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x15060
- GPIO_J_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x15080
- GPIO_J_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x150a0
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x15200
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x15220

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x15240
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x15260
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x15280
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x152a0
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x152c0
- GPIO_C_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x152e0
- GPIO_D_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x15400
- GPIO_D_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x15420
- GPIO_D_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x15440
- GPIO_D_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x15460
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x15600
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x15620
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x15640
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x15660
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x15680
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x156a0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x156c0
- GPIO_E_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x156e0
- GPIO_F_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x15800
- GPIO_F_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x15820
- GPIO_F_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x15840
- GPIO_F_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x15860
- GPIO_F_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x15880
- GPIO_F_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x158a0
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1000
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1020
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x1040
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x1060
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x1080
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a0
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c0
- GPIO_EE_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_GG_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1200
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1400
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1420
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x1440
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x1460
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x1480
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x14a0
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x14c0
- GPIO_CC_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x14e0
- GPIO_DD_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1600
- GPIO_DD_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1620
- GPIO_DD_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x1640
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1800
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1820
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x1840
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x1860

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x1880
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x18a0
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x18c0
- GPIO_AA_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x18e0
- GPIO_BB_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1a00
- GPIO_BB_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1a20
- GPIO_BB_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x1a40
- GPIO_BB_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x1a60
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<i>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTION: This field allows the GPIO input change event to create a timestamp event.
- When enabled based on the settings in TRIGGER_TYPE & TRIGGER LEVEL time-
stamp trigger is sent out to TSC.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == IN). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.

- GPIO Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 INTERRUPT_FUNCTION:
- This field provides the Interrupt selection for the GPIO Input changes based on
trigger type (TRIGGER_TYPE) trigger polarity (TRIGGER LEVEL)
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- When
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == 1)), the Interrupt Status is updated in the Interrupt Status Register (GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0) for all the VM's, based on the settings of
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE &
GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER LEVEL. 0x0 DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION: This field provides the Debounce filter selection on the GPIO Input.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE (no Debounce filter). 1 = ENABLE.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION == ENABLE),
the debouncing interval value is defined by (GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD). 0x0 TRIGGER_LEVEL:
- This field selects the polarity of the GPIO Input trigger for the given trigger
type.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE).
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == NO TRIGGER),
this field is irrelevant.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == LEVEL),
0 = Trigger on level Low. 1 = Trigger on Level High.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == SINGLE EDGE),
0 = Trigger on Falling Edge. 1 = Trigger on Raising Edge.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == BOTH EDGES),
this field is irrelevant. 3:2 0x0 TRIGGER_TYPE: This field selects the GPIO Input trigger type (condition).
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = NO_TRIGGER. 1 = LEVEL. 2 = SINGLE EDGE. 3 = DOUBLE_EDGE (i.e. both Low-High, High-Low edges are detected as event). 0x0 IN_OUT: This field configures the GPIO for Input or Output.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = IN. 1 = OUT.

- GPIO Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_ENABLE:
- This field is the GPIO functionality selection control required for output/input
selection. It acts as a global qualifier for all the functions of the specific GPIO. It is also used for SLCG (Second Level Clock Gating) per pin-based GPIO logic. 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- When disabled, the GPIO is floated, i.e. both input and output are disabled. At
this point, If PinMux selects the GPIO, the I/O is in High-Z state.
- GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG and
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x10004
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x10024
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x10044
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x10064
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x10084
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x100a4
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x100c4
- GPIO_A_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x100e4
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x10204
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x10224

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x10244
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x10264
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x10284
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x102a4
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x102c4
- GPIO_AC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x102e4
- GPIO_B_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x10604
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x11004
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x11024
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x11044
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x11064
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x11084
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x110a4
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x110c4
- GPIO_X_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x110e4
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x11204

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x11224
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x11244
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x11264
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x11284
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x112a4
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x112c4
- GPIO_Y_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x112e4
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x11404
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x11424
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x11444
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x11464
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x11484
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x114a4
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x114c4
- GPIO_Z_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x114e4
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x12004

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x12024
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x12044
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x12064
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x12084
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x120a4
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x120c4
- GPIO_M_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x120e4
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x12204
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x12224
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x12244
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x12264
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x12284
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x122a4
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x122c4
- GPIO_N_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x122e4
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x12404

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x12424
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x12444
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x12464
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x12484
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x124a4
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x124c4
- GPIO_P_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x124e4
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x12604
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x12624
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x12644
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x12664
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x12684
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x126a4
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x126c4
- GPIO_Q_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x126e4
- GPIO_R_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x12804

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_R_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x12824
- GPIO_R_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x12844
- GPIO_R_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x12864
- GPIO_R_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x12884
- GPIO_R_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x128a4
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x13004
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x13024
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x13044
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x13064
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x13084
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x130a4
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x130c4
- GPIO_K_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x130e4
- GPIO_L_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x13204
- GPIO_L_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x13224
- GPIO_L_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x13244

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_L_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x13264
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x13404
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x13424
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x13444
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x13464
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x13484
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x134a4
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x134c4
- GPIO_AG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x134e4
- GPIO_AE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x13604
- GPIO_AE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x13624
- GPIO_AF_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x13804
- GPIO_AF_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x13824
- GPIO_AF_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x13844
- GPIO_AF_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x13864
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x14004

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x14024
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x14044
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x14064
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x14084
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x140a4
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x140c4
- GPIO_G_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x140e4
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x14204
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x14224
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x14244
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x14264
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x14284
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x142a4
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x142c4
- GPIO_H_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x142e4
- GPIO_I_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x14404

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_I_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x14424
- GPIO_I_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x14444
- GPIO_I_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x14464
- GPIO_I_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x14484
- GPIO_I_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x144a4
- GPIO_I_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x144c4
- GPIO_J_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x15004
- GPIO_J_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x15024
- GPIO_J_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x15044
- GPIO_J_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x15064
- GPIO_J_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x15084
- GPIO_J_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x150a4
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x15204
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x15224
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x15244
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x15264

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x15284
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x152a4
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x152c4
- GPIO_C_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x152e4
- GPIO_D_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x15404
- GPIO_D_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x15424
- GPIO_D_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x15444
- GPIO_D_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x15464
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x15604
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x15624
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x15644
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x15664
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x15684
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x156a4
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x156c4
- GPIO_E_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x156e4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_F_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x15804
- GPIO_F_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x15824
- GPIO_F_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x15844
- GPIO_F_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x15864
- GPIO_F_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x15884
- GPIO_F_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x158a4
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1004
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1024
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x1044
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x1064
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x1084
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a4
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c4
- GPIO_EE_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e4
- GPIO_GG_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1204
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1404

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1424
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x1444
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x1464
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x1484
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x14a4
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x14c4
- GPIO_CC_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x14e4
- GPIO_DD_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1604
- GPIO_DD_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1624
- GPIO_DD_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x1644
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1804
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1824
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x1844
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x1864
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x1884
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x18a4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x18c4
- GPIO_AA_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x18e4
- GPIO_BB_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1a04
- GPIO_BB_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1a24
- GPIO_BB_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x1a44
- GPIO_BB_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x1a64
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<i>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD:
- This field holds the Debounce threshold in msec to specify the debounce
interval. 0 = No Debounce. 1 ~ N-1: Debouncing interval of 1 msec to (N-1) msec. NOTE: The actual Debounce interval has an accuracy granularity of 1 msec.
- Hence, when programmed to "1", the actual Debouncing interval is
between 1 msec and 2 msec.
- GPIO_<i>_INPUT_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG and
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_A_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x10008
- GPIO_A_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x10028

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_A_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x10048
- GPIO_A_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x10068
- GPIO_A_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x10088
- GPIO_A_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x100a8
- GPIO_A_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x100c8
- GPIO_A_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x100e8
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x10208
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x10228
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x10248
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x10268
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x10288
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x102a8
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x102c8
- GPIO_AC_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x102e8
- GPIO_AD_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x10408
- GPIO_AD_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x10428

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AD_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x10448
- GPIO_AD_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x10468
- GPIO_B_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x10608
- GPIO_X_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x11008
- GPIO_X_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x11028
- GPIO_X_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x11048
- GPIO_X_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x11068
- GPIO_X_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x11088
- GPIO_X_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x110a8
- GPIO_X_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x110c8
- GPIO_X_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x110e8
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x11208
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x11228
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x11248
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x11268
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x11288

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x112a8
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x112c8
- GPIO_Y_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x112e8
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x11408
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x11428
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x11448
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x11468
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x11488
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x114a8
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x114c8
- GPIO_Z_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x114e8
- GPIO_M_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x12008
- GPIO_M_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x12028
- GPIO_M_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x12048
- GPIO_M_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x12068
- GPIO_M_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x12088

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_M_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x120a8
- GPIO_M_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x120c8
- GPIO_M_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x120e8
- GPIO_N_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x12208
- GPIO_N_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x12228
- GPIO_N_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x12248
- GPIO_N_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x12268
- GPIO_N_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x12288
- GPIO_N_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x122a8
- GPIO_N_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x122c8
- GPIO_N_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x122e8
- GPIO_P_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x12408
- GPIO_P_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x12428
- GPIO_P_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x12448
- GPIO_P_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x12468
- GPIO_P_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x12488

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_P_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x124a8
- GPIO_P_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x124c8
- GPIO_P_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x124e8
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x12608
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x12628
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x12648
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x12668
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x12688
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x126a8
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x126c8
- GPIO_Q_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x126e8
- GPIO_R_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x12808
- GPIO_R_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x12828
- GPIO_R_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x12848
- GPIO_R_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x12868
- GPIO_R_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x12888

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_R_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x128a8
- GPIO_K_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x13008
- GPIO_K_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x13028
- GPIO_K_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x13048
- GPIO_K_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x13068
- GPIO_K_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x13088
- GPIO_K_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x130a8
- GPIO_K_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x130c8
- GPIO_K_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x130e8
- GPIO_L_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x13208
- GPIO_L_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x13228
- GPIO_L_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x13248
- GPIO_L_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x13268
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x13408
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x13428
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x13448

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x13468
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x13488
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x134a8
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x134c8
- GPIO_AG_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x134e8
- GPIO_AE_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x13608
- GPIO_AE_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x13628
- GPIO_AF_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x13808
- GPIO_AF_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x13828
- GPIO_AF_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x13848
- GPIO_AF_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x13868
- GPIO_G_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x14008
- GPIO_G_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x14028
- GPIO_G_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x14048
- GPIO_G_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x14068
- GPIO_G_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x14088

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_G_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x140a8
- GPIO_G_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x140c8
- GPIO_G_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x140e8
- GPIO_H_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x14208
- GPIO_H_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x14228
- GPIO_H_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x14248
- GPIO_H_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x14268
- GPIO_H_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x14288
- GPIO_H_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x142a8
- GPIO_H_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x142c8
- GPIO_H_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x142e8
- GPIO_I_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x14408
- GPIO_I_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x14428
- GPIO_I_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x14448
- GPIO_I_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x14468
- GPIO_I_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x14488

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_I_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x144a8
- GPIO_I_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x144c8
- GPIO_J_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x15008
- GPIO_J_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x15028
- GPIO_J_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x15048
- GPIO_J_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x15068
- GPIO_J_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x15088
- GPIO_J_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x150a8
- GPIO_C_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x15208
- GPIO_C_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x15228
- GPIO_C_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x15248
- GPIO_C_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x15268
- GPIO_C_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x15288
- GPIO_C_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x152a8
- GPIO_C_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x152c8
- GPIO_C_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x152e8

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_D_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x15408
- GPIO_D_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x15428
- GPIO_D_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x15448
- GPIO_D_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x15468
- GPIO_E_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x15608
- GPIO_E_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x15628
- GPIO_E_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x15648
- GPIO_E_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x15668
- GPIO_E_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x15688
- GPIO_E_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x156a8
- GPIO_E_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x156c8
- GPIO_E_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x156e8
- GPIO_F_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x15808
- GPIO_F_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x15828
- GPIO_F_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x15848
- GPIO_F_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x15868

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_F_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x15888
- GPIO_F_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x158a8
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1008
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1028
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x1048
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x1068
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x1088
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a8
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c8
- GPIO_EE_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e8
- GPIO_GG_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1208
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1408
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1428
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x1448
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x1468
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x1488

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x14a8
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x14c8
- GPIO_CC_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x14e8
- GPIO_DD_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1608
- GPIO_DD_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1628
- GPIO_DD_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x1648
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1808
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1828
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x1848
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x1868
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x1888
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x18a8
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x18c8
- GPIO_AA_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x18e8
- GPIO_BB_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1a08
- GPIO_BB_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1a28

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_BB_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x1a48
- GPIO_BB_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x1a68
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<i>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
X GPIO_IN:
- This field holds the GPIO Input value sampled after the specified
Debouncing interval.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE).
- It reflects the external value regardless of (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_
- CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT) setting, so that the externally driven value is
present in this field to aid debugging.
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG and
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1000c
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1002c
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1004c
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1006c
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1008c
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x100ac

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x100cc
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x100ec
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1020c
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1022c
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1024c
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1026c
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1028c
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x102ac
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x102cc
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x102ec
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1040c
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1042c
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1044c
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1046c
- GPIO_B_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1060c
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1100c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1102c
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1104c
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1106c
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1108c
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x110ac
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x110cc
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x110ec
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1120c
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1122c
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1124c
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1126c
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1128c
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x112ac
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x112cc
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x112ec
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1140c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1142c
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1144c
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1146c
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1148c
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x114ac
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x114cc
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x114ec
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1200c
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1202c
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1204c
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1206c
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1208c
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x120ac
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x120cc
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x120ec
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1220c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1222c
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1224c
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1226c
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1228c
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x122ac
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x122cc
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x122ec
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1240c
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1242c
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1244c
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1246c
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1248c
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x124ac
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x124cc
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x124ec
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1260c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1262c
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1264c
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1266c
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1268c
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x126ac
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x126cc
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x126ec
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1280c
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1282c
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1284c
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1286c
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1288c
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x128ac
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1300c
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1302c
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1304c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1306c
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1308c
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x130ac
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x130cc
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x130ec
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1320c
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1322c
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1324c
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1326c
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1340c
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1342c
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1344c
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1346c
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1348c
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x134ac
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x134cc

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x134ec
- GPIO_AE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1360c
- GPIO_AE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1362c
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1380c
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1382c
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1384c
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1386c
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1400c
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1402c
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1404c
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1406c
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1408c
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x140ac
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x140cc
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x140ec
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1420c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1422c
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1424c
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1426c
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1428c
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x142ac
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x142cc
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x142ec
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1440c
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1442c
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1444c
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1446c
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1448c
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x144ac
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x144cc
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1500c
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1502c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1504c
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1506c
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1508c
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x150ac
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1520c
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1522c
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1524c
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1526c
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1528c
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x152ac
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x152cc
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x152ec
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1540c
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1542c
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1544c
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1546c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1560c
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1562c
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1564c
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1566c
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1568c
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x156ac
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x156cc
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x156ec
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1580c
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1582c
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1584c
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1586c
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x1588c
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x158ac
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x100c
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x102c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x104c
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x106c
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x108c
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x10ac
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x10cc
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x10ec
- GPIO_GG_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x120c
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x140c
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x142c
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x144c
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x146c
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x148c
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x14ac
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x14cc
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x14ec
- GPIO_DD_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x160c

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_DD_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x162c
- GPIO_DD_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x164c
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x180c
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x182c
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x184c
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x186c
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x188c
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x18ac
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x18cc
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x18ec
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x1a0c
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x1a2c
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x1a4c
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x1a6c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<i>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx1)

- GPIO Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 GPIO_OUT_CONTROL:
- This field Indicates whether the GPIO as an output is Floated or Actively
driven.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == OUT)).
- It is floated regardless of the value specified here, When
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == DISABLE) || (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == IN)). 0 = DRIVEN. 1 = FLOATED.
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG and
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x10010
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x10030
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x10050
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x10070
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x10090
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x100b0
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x100d0
- GPIO_A_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x100f0
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x10210

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x10230
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x10250
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x10270
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x10290
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x102b0
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x102d0
- GPIO_AC_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x102f0
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x10410
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x10430
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x10450
- GPIO_AD_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x10470
- GPIO_B_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x10610
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x11010
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x11030
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x11050
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x11070

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x11090
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x110b0
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x110d0
- GPIO_X_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x110f0
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x11210
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x11230
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x11250
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x11270
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x11290
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x112b0
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x112d0
- GPIO_Y_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x112f0
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x11410
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x11430
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x11450
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x11470

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x11490
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x114b0
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x114d0
- GPIO_Z_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x114f0
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x12010
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x12030
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x12050
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x12070
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x12090
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x120b0
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x120d0
- GPIO_M_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x120f0
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x12210
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x12230
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x12250
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x12270

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x12290
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x122b0
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x122d0
- GPIO_N_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x122f0
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x12410
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x12430
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x12450
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x12470
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x12490
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x124b0
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x124d0
- GPIO_P_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x124f0
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x12610
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x12630
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x12650
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x12670

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x12690
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x126b0
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x126d0
- GPIO_Q_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x126f0
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x12810
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x12830
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x12850
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x12870
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x12890
- GPIO_R_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x128b0
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x13010
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x13030
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x13050
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x13070
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x13090
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x130b0

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x130d0
- GPIO_K_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x130f0
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x13210
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x13230
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x13250
- GPIO_L_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x13270
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x13410
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x13430
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x13450
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x13470
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x13490
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x134b0
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x134d0
- GPIO_AG_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x134f0
- GPIO_AE_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x13610
- GPIO_AE_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x13630

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x13810
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x13830
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x13850
- GPIO_AF_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x13870
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x14010
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x14030
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x14050
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x14070
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x14090
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x140b0
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x140d0
- GPIO_G_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x140f0
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x14210
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x14230
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x14250
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x14270

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x14290
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x142b0
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x142d0
- GPIO_H_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x142f0
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x14410
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x14430
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x14450
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x14470
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x14490
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x144b0
- GPIO_I_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x144d0
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x15010
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x15030
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x15050
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x15070
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x15090

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_J_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x150b0
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x15210
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x15230
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x15250
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x15270
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x15290
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x152b0
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x152d0
- GPIO_C_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x152f0
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x15410
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x15430
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x15450
- GPIO_D_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x15470
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x15610
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x15630
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x15650

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x15670
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x15690
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x156b0
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x156d0
- GPIO_E_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x156f0
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x15810
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x15830
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x15850
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x15870
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x15890
- GPIO_F_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x158b0
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1010
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1030
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x1050
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x1070
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x1090

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x10b0
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x10d0
- GPIO_EE_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x10f0
- GPIO_GG_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1210
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1410
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1430
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x1450
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x1470
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x1490
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x14b0
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x14d0
- GPIO_CC_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x14f0
- GPIO_DD_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1610
- GPIO_DD_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1630
- GPIO_DD_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x1650
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1810

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1830
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x1850
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x1870
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x1890
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x18b0
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x18d0
- GPIO_AA_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x18f0
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1a10
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1a30
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x1a50
- GPIO_BB_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x1a70
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<i>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_OUT_VAL:
- This field holds the GPIO output value to be driven out when
(GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL == DRIVEN).
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == OUT)).

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG and
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x10014
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x10034
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x10054
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x10074
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x10094
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x100b4
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x100d4
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x100f4
- Read/Write: R/W
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x10214
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x10234
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x10254
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x10274
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x10294

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x102b4
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x102d4
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x102f4
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x10414
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x10434
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x10454
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x10474
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x10614
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x11014
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x11034
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x11054
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x11074
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x11094
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x110b4
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x110d4
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x110f4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x11214
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x11234
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x11254
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x11274
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x11294
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x112b4
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x112d4
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x112f4
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x11414
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x11434
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x11454
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x11474
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x11494
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x114b4
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x114d4
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x114f4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x12014
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x12034
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x12054
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x12074
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x12094
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x120b4
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x120d4
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x120f4
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x12214
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x12234
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x12254
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x12274
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x12294
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x122b4
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x122d4
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x122f4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x12414
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x12434
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x12454
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x12474
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x12494
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x124b4
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x124d4
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x124f4
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x12614
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x12634
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x12654
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x12674
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x12694
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x126b4
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x126d4
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x126f4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x12814
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x12834
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x12854
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x12874
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x12894
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x128b4
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x13014
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x13034
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x13054
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x13074
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x13094
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x130b4
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x130d4
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x130f4
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x13214
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x13234

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x13254
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x13274
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x13414
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x13434
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x13454
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x13474
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x13494
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x134b4
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x134d4
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x134f4
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x13614
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x13634
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x13814
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x13834
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x13854
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x13874

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x14014
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x14034
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x14054
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x14074
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x14094
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x140b4
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x140d4
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x140f4
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x14214
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x14234
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x14254
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x14274
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x14294
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x142b4
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x142d4
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x142f4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x14414
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x14434
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x14454
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x14474
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x14494
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x144b4
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x144d4
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x15014
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x15034
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x15054
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x15074
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x15094
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x150b4
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x15214
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x15234
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x15254

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x15274
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x15294
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x152b4
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x152d4
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x152f4
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x15414
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x15434
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x15454
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x15474
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x15614
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x15634
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x15654
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x15674
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x15694
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x156b4
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x156d4

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x156f4
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x15814
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x15834
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x15854
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x15874
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x15894
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x158b4
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1014
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1034
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x1054
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x1074
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x1094
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x10b4
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x10d4
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x10f4
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1214

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1414
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1434
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x1454
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x1474
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x1494
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x14b4
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x14d4
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x14f4
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1614
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1634
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x1654
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1814
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1834
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x1854
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x1874
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x1894

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x18b4
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x18d4
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x18f4
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1a14
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1a34
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x1a54
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x1a74
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<i>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR:
- This field holds the Interrupt clear control bit for clearing the Interrupt at
GPIO Pin <j> in GPIO Port <i>/<iii>.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)). 0 = DON’T CLEAR. 1 = CLEAR.
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG and
<jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x10100

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x10104
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x10108
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1010c
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x10110
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x10114
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x10118
- GPIO_A_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1011c
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x10300
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x10304
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x10308
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1030c
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x10310
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x10314
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x10318
- GPIO_AC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1031c
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x11100

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x11104
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x11108
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1110c
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x11110
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x11114
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x11118
- GPIO_X_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1111c
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x11300
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x11304
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x11308
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1130c
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x11310
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x11314
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x11318
- GPIO_Y_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1131c
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x11500

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x11504
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x11508
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1150c
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x11510
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x11514
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x11518
- GPIO_Z_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1151c
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x12100
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x12104
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x12108
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1210c
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x12110
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x12114
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x12118
- GPIO_M_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1211c
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x12300

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x12304
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x12308
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1230c
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x12310
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x12314
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x12318
- GPIO_N_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1231c
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x12500
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x12504
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x12508
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1250c
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x12510
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x12514
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x12518
- GPIO_P_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1251c
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x12700

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x12704
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x12708
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1270c
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x12710
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x12714
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x12718
- GPIO_Q_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1271c
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x13100
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x13104
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x13108
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1310c
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x13110
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x13114
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x13118
- GPIO_K_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1311c
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x13500

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x13504
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x13508
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1350c
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x13510
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x13514
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x13518
- GPIO_AG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1351c
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x14100
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x14104
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x14108
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1410c
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x14110
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x14114
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x14118
- GPIO_G_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1411c
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x14300

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x14304
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x14308
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1430c
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x14310
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x14314
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x14318
- GPIO_H_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1431c
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x15300
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x15304
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x15308
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1530c
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x15310
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x15314
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x15318
- GPIO_C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1531c
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x15700

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x15704
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x15708
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1570c
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x15710
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x15714
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x15718
- GPIO_E_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1571c
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1100
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1104
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1108
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x110c
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1110
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1114
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1118
- GPIO_EE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x111c
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1500

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1504
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1508
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x150c
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1510
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1514
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1518
- GPIO_CC_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x151c
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1900
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1904
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1908
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x190c
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1910
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1914
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1918
- GPIO_AA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x191c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- GPIO Control Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
7:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS: This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR. In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x14500
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x14504
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x14508
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1450c
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x14510
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x14514
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x14518
- GPIO_I_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1451c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- GPIO Control Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000)
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
6:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS: This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR. In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x12900
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x12904
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x12908
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1290c
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x12910
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x12914
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x12918
- GPIO_R_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1291c
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x15100

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x15104
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x15108
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1510c
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x15110
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x15114
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x15118
- GPIO_J_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1511c
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x15900
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x15904
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x15908
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1590c
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x15910
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x15914
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x15918
- GPIO_F_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1591c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- GPIO Control Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
5:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS: This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR. In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x13300
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x13304
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x13308
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1330c
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x13310
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x13314
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x13318
- GPIO_L_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1331c
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x15500

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x15504
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x15508
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1550c
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x15510
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x15514
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x15518
- GPIO_D_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1551c
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x13900
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x13904
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x13908
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1390c
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x13910
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x13914
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x13918
- GPIO_AF_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1391c
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x10500

- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x10504
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x10508
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1050c
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x10510
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x10514
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x10518
- GPIO_AD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1051c
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1b00
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1b04
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1b08
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1b0c
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1b10
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1b14
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1b18
- GPIO_BB_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1b1c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- GPIO Control Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000)
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
3:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS: This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR. In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1700
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1704
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1708
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x170c
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1710
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1714
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1718
- GPIO_DD_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x171c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- GPIO Control Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000)
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
2:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS: This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR. In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x13700
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x13704
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x13708
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1370c
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x13710
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x13714
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x13718
- GPIO_AE_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1371c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- GPIO Control Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
1:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS: This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR. In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x10700
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x10704
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x10708
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x1070c
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x10710
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x10714
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x10718
- GPIO_B_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x1071c
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1300

- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1304
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1308
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x130c
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1310
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1314
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1318
- GPIO_GG_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x131c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bi
t
- Rese
t
- Description
0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS: This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port, with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR. In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
#### 9.5.6.3 GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
NOTE:

- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- All GPIO_S, GPIO_T, and GPIO_W Common Control Registers share the same base address
under the name FSI_GPIO_CLT0.
- All GPIO_U and GPIO_V Common Control Registers share the same base address under the
name FSI_GPIO_CLT1.
- For the base address of FSI GPIO Controller 0 Common Control Registers (FSI_GPIO_CLT0) and
- FSI GPIO Controller 1 Common Control Registers (FSI_GPIO_CLT1), please refer to the System
Address Map in this TRM. NOTE:
- The binary “x” is turned to “0” for the Reset and PROD hex value. Hence, in some cases, a
mismatch occurs between the displayed hexadecimal and binary value. A bit Reset value as “x” or “Undefined” actually means that the bit could be either “0” or “1” after Reset, whereas a bit PROD value as “x” or “Don’t-care” means that either “0” or “1” can be written to the bit by software Initialization.
- GPIO_FSI<m>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0,
where <m> = 0, 1.
- GPIO_FSI0_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x810
- GPIO_FSI1_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- Offset: 0x810
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_FSI<m>_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE: This field enables ICG Override. 0 = ICG Override Disabled. 1 = ICG Override Enabled.
- GPIO_<iii>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <jjj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.

- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- GPIO_S_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x814
- GPIO_S_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x818
- GPIO_S_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x81c
- GPIO_S_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x820
- GPIO_S_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x824
- GPIO_S_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x828
- GPIO_S_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x82c
- GPIO_S_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x830
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_FSI0_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_T_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x834
- GPIO_T_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x838
- GPIO_T_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x83c

- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- GPIO_T_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x840
- GPIO_T_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x844
- GPIO_T_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x848
- GPIO_T_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x84c
- GPIO_T_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x850
- GPIO_W_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x854
- GPIO_W_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x858
- GPIO_W_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x85c
- GPIO_W_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x860
- GPIO_W_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x864
- GPIO_W_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x868
- GPIO_W_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x86c
- GPIO_W_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x870
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_FSI0_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)

- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
1:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_U_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x814
- GPIO_U_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x818
- GPIO_U_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x81c
- GPIO_U_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x820
- GPIO_U_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x824
- GPIO_U_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x828
- GPIO_U_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x82c
- GPIO_U_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x830
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_FSI1_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.

- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- GPIO_V_INT0_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x834
- GPIO_V_INT1_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x838
- GPIO_V_INT2_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x83c
- GPIO_V_INT3_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x840
- GPIO_V_INT4_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x844
- GPIO_V_INT5_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x848
- GPIO_V_INT6_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x84c
- GPIO_V_INT7_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- Offset: 0x850
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_FSI1_SCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 VAL:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Pin has caused the assertion of the given Interrupt (<jj>). 0 = No. 1 = Yes.
- GPIO_FSI<m>_SPARE_0,
where <m> = 0, 1.
- GPIO_FSI0_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x874

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_FSI1_SPARE_0
- Offset: 0x854
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
15:0 0x0
- SPARE
#### 9.5.6.4 GPIO FSI Control Registers
NOTE:
- All GPIO_S, GPIO_T, and GPIO_W Control Registers share the same base address under the
name FSI_GPIO_CLT0.
- All GPIO_U and GPIO_V Control Registers share the same base address under the name
FSI_GPIO_CLT1.
- For the base address of FSI GPIO Controller 0 Control Registers (FSI_GPIO_CLT0) and FSI
GPIO Controller 1 Control Registers (FSI_GPIO_CLT1), please refer to the System Address Map in this TRM. NOTE:
- The binary “x” is turned to “0” for the Reset and PROD hex value. Hence, in some cases, a
mismatch occurs between the displayed hexadecimal and binary value. A bit Reset value as “x” or “Undefined” actually means that the bit could be either “0” or “1” after Reset, whereas a bit PROD value as “x” or “Don’t-care” means that either “0” or “1” can be written to the bit by software Initialization.
- GPIO_<iii>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1000
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1020

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x1040
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x1060
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x1080
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a0
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c0
- GPIO_S_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e0
- GPIO_T_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1200
- GPIO_T_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1220
- GPIO_W_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1400
- GPIO_W_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1420
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1000
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_01_0
- Offset: 0x1020
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_02_0
- Offset: 0x1040
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_03_0
- Offset: 0x1060
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_04_0
- Offset: 0x1080
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a0

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c0
- GPIO_U_ENABLE_CONFIG_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e0
- GPIO_V_ENABLE_CONFIG_00_0
- Offset: 0x1200
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<iii>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTION: This field allows the GPIO input change event to create a timestamp event.
- When enabled based on the settings in TRIGGER_TYPE & TRIGGER LEVEL time-
stamp trigger is sent out to TSC.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == IN). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE. 0x0 INTERRUPT_FUNCTION:
- This field provides the Interrupt selection for the GPIO Input changes based on
trigger type (TRIGGER_TYPE) trigger polarity (TRIGGER LEVEL)
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- When
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == 1)), the Interrupt Status is updated in the Interrupt Status Register (GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0) for all the VM's, based on the settings of
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE &
GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER LEVEL. 0x0 DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION: This field provides the Debounce filter selection on the GPIO Input.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE (no Debounce filter). 1 = ENABLE.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION == ENABLE),
the debouncing interval value is defined by (GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD).

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TRIGGER_LEVEL:
- This field selects the polarity of the GPIO Input trigger for the given trigger
type.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE).
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == NO TRIGGER),
this field is irrelevant.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == LEVEL),
0 = Trigger on level Low. 1 = Trigger on Level High.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == SINGLE EDGE),
0 = Trigger on Falling Edge. 1 = Trigger on Raising Edge.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == BOTH EDGES),
this field is irrelevant. 3:2 0x0 TRIGGER_TYPE: This field selects the GPIO Input trigger type (condition).
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = NO_TRIGGER. 1 = LEVEL. 2 = SINGLE EDGE. 3 = DOUBLE_EDGE (i.e. both Low-High, High-Low edges are detected as event). 0x0 IN_OUT: This field configures the GPIO for Input or Output.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = IN. 1 = OUT. 0x0 GPIO_ENABLE:
- This field is the GPIO functionality selection control required for output/input
selection. It acts as a global qualifier for all the functions of the specific GPIO. It is also used for SLCG (Second Level Clock Gating) per pin-based GPIO logic. 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- When Disabled, the GPIO is floated, i.e. both input and output are disabled. At
this point, If PinMux selects the GPIO, the I/O is in High-Z state.
- GPIO_<iii>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1004
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1024

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x1044
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x1064
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x1084
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a4
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c4
- GPIO_S_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e4
- GPIO_T_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1204
- GPIO_T_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1224
- GPIO_W_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1404
- GPIO_W_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1424
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1004
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_01_0
- Offset: 0x1024
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_02_0
- Offset: 0x1044
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_03_0
- Offset: 0x1064
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_04_0
- Offset: 0x1084
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a4

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c4
- GPIO_U_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e4
- GPIO_V_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_00_0
- Offset: 0x1204
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<iii>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD:
- This field holds the Debounce threshold in msec to specify the debounce
interval. 0 = No Debounce. 1 ~ N-1: Debouncing interval of 1 msec to (N-1) msec. NOTE: The actual Debounce interval has an accuracy granularity of 1 msec.
- Hence, when programmed to "1", the actual Debouncing interval is
between 1 msec and 2 msec.
- GPIO_<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_S_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1008
- GPIO_S_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1028
- GPIO_S_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x1048
- GPIO_S_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x1068
- GPIO_S_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x1088

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_S_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a8
- GPIO_S_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c8
- GPIO_S_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e8
- GPIO_T_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1208
- GPIO_T_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1228
- GPIO_W_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1408
- GPIO_W_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1428
- GPIO_U_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1008
- GPIO_U_INPUT_01_0
- Offset: 0x1028
- GPIO_U_INPUT_02_0
- Offset: 0x1048
- GPIO_U_INPUT_03_0
- Offset: 0x1068
- GPIO_U_INPUT_04_0
- Offset: 0x1088
- GPIO_U_INPUT_05_0
- Offset: 0x10a8
- GPIO_U_INPUT_06_0
- Offset: 0x10c8
- GPIO_U_INPUT_07_0
- Offset: 0x10e8
- GPIO_V_INPUT_00_0
- Offset: 0x1208

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<iii>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
X GPIO_IN:
- This field holds the GPIO Input value sampled after the specified
Debouncing interval.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE).
- It reflects the external value regardless of (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_
- CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT) setting, so that the externally driven value is
present in this field to aid debugging.
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x100c
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x102c
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x104c
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x106c
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x108c
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x10ac
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x10cc
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x10ec

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_T_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x120c
- GPIO_T_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x122c
- GPIO_W_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x140c
- GPIO_W_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x142c
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x100c
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_01_0
- Offset: 0x102c
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_02_0
- Offset: 0x104c
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_03_0
- Offset: 0x106c
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_04_0
- Offset: 0x108c
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_05_0
- Offset: 0x10ac
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_06_0
- Offset: 0x10cc
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_CONTROL_07_0
- Offset: 0x10ec
- GPIO_V_OUTPUT_CONTROL_00_0
- Offset: 0x120c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<iii>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx1)

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 GPIO_OUT_CONTROL:
- This field Indicates whether the GPIO as an output is Floated or Actively
driven.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == OUT)).
- It is floated regardless of the value specified here, When
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == DISABLE) || (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == IN)). 0 = DRIVEN. 1 = FLOATED.
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1010
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1030
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_02_0
- Offset: 0x1050
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x1070
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x1090
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x10b0
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x10d0
- GPIO_S_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x10f0
- GPIO_T_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1210

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_T_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1230
- GPIO_W_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1410
- GPIO_W_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1430
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1010
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_VALUE_01_0
- Offset: 0x1030
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_VALUE_03_0
- Offset: 0x1070
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_VALUE_04_0
- Offset: 0x1090
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_VALUE_05_0
- Offset: 0x10b0
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_VALUE_06_0
- Offset: 0x10d0
- GPIO_U_OUTPUT_VALUE_07_0
- Offset: 0x10f0
- GPIO_V_OUTPUT_VALUE_00_0
- Offset: 0x1210
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<iii>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_OUT_VAL:
- This field holds the GPIO output value to be driven out when
(GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL == DRIVEN).
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == OUT)).

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1014
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1034
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x1054
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x1074
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x1094
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x10b4
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x10d4
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x10f4
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1214
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1234
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1414
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1434
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1014
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_01_0
- Offset: 0x1034

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_02_0
- Offset: 0x1054
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_03_0
- Offset: 0x1074
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_04_0
- Offset: 0x1094
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_05_0
- Offset: 0x10b4
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_06_0
- Offset: 0x10d4
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_07_0
- Offset: 0x10f4
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_00_0
- Offset: 0x1214
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: GPIO_<iii>_SCR_0<j>_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR:
- This field holds the Interrupt clear control bit for clearing the Interrupt at
GPIO Pin <j> in GPIO Port <i>/<iii>.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)). 0 = DON’T CLEAR. 1 = CLEAR.
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1100

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1104
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1108
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x110c
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1110
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1114
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1118
- GPIO_S_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x111c
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1100
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1104
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1108
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x110c
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1110
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1114
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1118
- GPIO_U_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x111c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR.
- In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to
- VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this
field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1300
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1304
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1308
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x130c
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1310
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1314
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1318
- GPIO_T_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x131c
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1500

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1504
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1508
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x150c
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1510
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1514
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1518
- GPIO_W_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x151c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
1:0 0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR.
- In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to
- VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this
field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G0_0
- Offset: 0x1300

- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G1_0
- Offset: 0x1304
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G2_0
- Offset: 0x1308
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G3_0
- Offset: 0x130c
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G4_0
- Offset: 0x1310
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G5_0
- Offset: 0x1314
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G6_0
- Offset: 0x1318
- GPIO_V_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G7_0
- Offset: 0x131c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 GPIO_INTERRUPT_STATUS:
- This field has as many bits as the number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port,
with each such bit indicating whether the corresponding GPIO Input change has resulted in Interrupt.
- Bit 0 is for Pin 0,
- Bit 1 is for Pin 1,
... Bit <j> is for Pin <j>. 0 = Interrupt not set. 1 = Interrupt set.
- It is effective only when
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == ENABLE)).
- The bit in this field is cleared based on GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0.GPIO_INTERRUPT_CLEAR.
- In a Virtualized environment, the status reflects only the GPIOs belonging to
- VM. For the GPIO bit positions not mapped to VM, the corresponding bit in this
field is written with "0" by hardware for software to read this register correctly.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
