# 4.3 Boot and Power Management Processor
(BPMP)
### 4.3.1 Overview
The Boot and Power Management Processor (BPMP) complex provides a set of hardware functions that support the following tasks:
- Boot
- Cold boot
- Warm boot
- Deep-sleep (SC7) entry and exit
- Power Management
- DVFS and clock/voltage management
- SoC power state management
- Core rail power management (i.e., VDD_CPU, VDD_CORE, VDD_CV, VDD_SOC)
- Process, Voltage, and Temperature Sensor management
The BPMP complex includes:
- Dual Arm Cortex-R5F cores running in delayed lock-step with 32 KiB of I-cache and 32 KiB
of D-cache, both with ECC 128 KiB of tightly-coupled memory (TCM) with ECC
- Boot ROM
Timers, a DMA controller, an interrupt controller, and a set of peripherals for controlling the functions listed above Note: The BPMP processor runs NVIDIA supplied software and is controlled through a NVIDIA API. Details of the hardware programming interface are not supplied in this document.
### 4.3.2 BPMP Functional Description
#### 4.3.2.1 Conventions of Units
This TRM chapter follows the IEEE and NIST conventions for multiplying prefixes. Among other things, this convention uses an 'i' to indicate the binary convention, and its absence to indicate decimal. So, 1 KiB is 210 or 1,024 bytes, and 1 KB is 103 or 1,000 bytes. Similarly it uses:

- BPMP Functional Description
- Mi for 220 and M for 106
- Gi for 230 and G for 109
- Ti for 240 and T for 1012
#### 4.3.2.2 Glossary
- Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the BPMP complex.
- Term
- Definition
- APS
- Auxiliary Processor Subsystem. Refers to an implementation boundary that is shared across
Cortex-R5 clusters on the chip.
- The BPMP is based on the Arm Cortex-R5F processor, it may also be referred to as the
- Cortex-R5 or just R5, but the BPMP implementation does include the optional Floating-
Point Unit extensions including double-precision capability.
- The Arm PL192 Vectored Interrupt Controller is sometimes referred to by Arm as VIC. To
avoid a name-space conflict with the Video Image Compositor, the Arm Vectored Interrupt Controller is referred to as AVIC in this document, although it may also be referred to as VIC as part of register or signal names.
**Figure 4.38 BPMP Complex Block Diagram**

- BPMP Functional Description
#### 4.3.2.3 Arm Cortex-R5F Processor Overview
The Arm Cortex-R5F is implemented with the following features: Arm Cortex-R5F processor with a double-precision floating-point unit (FPU), featuring:
- ARMv7-R ISA
32 KiB of I-cache and 32 KiB of D-cache (with ECC) integrated. FPU extensions including double-precision capability. Dual Core Lock-Step mechanism.
- Two processor attached tightly-coupled memories (TCMs), an ATCM for the Boot ROM and
Exception Vector Pointers (EVP) and a BTCM of 128 KiB.
- Vectored interrupt controller based on two daisy-chained Arm PL192 vectored interrupt
controllers (AVIC). 64-bit AXI master interface for DRAM requests. 32-bit AXI peripheral interface for MMIO requests. 64-bit AXI slave interface for DMA access to the local SRAM. Debug logic.
##### 4.3.2.3.1 TCM Interface
Cortex-R5 provides two tightly coupled memory ports. These ports (ATCM and BTCM) are meant to provide low latency access to the Cortex-R5 processor. The ATCM hosts the Boot ROM and EVP, while the BTCM hosts a 128 KiB RAM.
##### 4.3.2.3.2 Build Configuration
The BPMP Cortex-R5 processor is built with both the ATCM and BTCM enabled.
- Table 4.23 TCM Build Configuration
- Config
- Ports
- ECC
- ATCM
- One port
- Yes
- BTCM
- Two ports (B0TCM, B1TCM)
- Yes
- Pin Configuration for ATCM Base Address
With both ATCM and BTCM enabled, Cortex-R5 requires that the base address of one of the TCMs is set to 0x0. For the BPMP Cortex-R5, this is the ATCM, since the ATCM hosts the EVP.

- BPMP Functional Description
- ATCM Interface
The BPMP ATCM interface hosts the Exception Vector Table and the BootROM. All these modules are wrapped in the ATCM wrapper that provides the ATCM interface to Cortex-R5. The Boot ROM address space is not accessible through the APB interface of the ATCM module. The configuration register space (ATCM_CFG) of the ATCM wrapper is accessible through the APB interface for write accesses.
- Exception Vector Pointers
When Cortex-R5 takes an exception (including the reset exception), the processor execution is forced to an address that corresponds to the type of exception. These addresses are called the exception vectors. By default, the exception vectors are eight consecutive word-aligned memory addresses, starting at an exception base address (which is reset default to 0x0000_0000 for BPMP). The EVP table is implemented through a set of 16 32-bit registers starting at address 0x0. The table below shows the default organization of the EVP coming out of reset. The programmability of EVP allows the processor to jump to an arbitrary address space in the entire memory space that is accessible to BPMP.
- Table 4.24 EVP Register Table
- Cortex-R5
- Address
- Global MMIO
- Address
- Data
- Description
0x00 0xD000000
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Reset vector. According to Arm architecture
manual, the PC reads an address equals current instruction + 8. 0x04 0xD000004
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Undefined exception
0x08 0xD000008
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- SWI (also known as SVC) exception
0x0C 0xD00000C
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Prefetch abort
0x10 0xD000010
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Data abort
0x14 0xD000014
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Reserved
0x18 0xD000018
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- IRQ
0x1C 0xD00001C
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- FIQ
0x20 0xD000020 0x10000
- BootROM base address
0x24 0xD000024 0x10004 0x28 0xD000028 0x10008 0x2C 0xD00002C 0x1000C 0x30 0xD000030 0x10010

- BPMP Functional Description
- Cortex-R5
- Address
- Global MMIO
- Address
- Data
- Description
0x34 0xD000034 0x10014 0x38 0xD000038 0x10018 0x3C 0xD00003C 0x1001C The above table assumes that the BootROM starts at a global address 0x10000 (64 KiB from the bottom of the memory map). The redirection of exception vectors enables BPMP to execute an ISR handler in the entire memory space accessible by it. The following steps are performed to handle EVP requests: 1. 2. 3. BPMP issues a read for exception vector address (@0x0000_00XX). EVP decodes exception vector aperture and generates read-response. Returns LD PC, [PC + 0x18] instruction as return data. This results in the PC getting loaded with a pointer to the exception vector. Notes: 1. Cortex-R5 additionally supports vectored exception handling specifically for IRQ Interrupts. This is supported in conjunction with the AVIC Interrupt controller. When an IRQ exception is triggered by the VIC, it can optionally send out a pointer to the Interrupt handler to service the particular Interrupt. For vectored Interrupts through VIC, the EVP table is not referenced by Cortex-R5. EVP reset is decoupled from Cortex-R5 reset. This enables the Cortex-R5 to be independently reset without affecting the content of EVP registers. 2. Cortex-R5 always reads the EVP table through the ATCM interface. The first eight entries in the EVP registers are read-only. The next eight entries are accessed through the address 0x00-0x3C by the Cortex-R5 while the same entries are aliased into the global AMAP space of the BPMP. This allows a non-BPMP MMIO master to update the EVP table.
- Error Checking and Signaling
Accesses to ATCM signal an error when the accesses are not allowed by the ATCM interface. When bit[0] of Auxiliary Control Register (ACTLR.ATCMECEN) is set to 1, the error triggers an undefined exception on Cortex-R5 accesses or AXI slave error on AXI slave requests by asserting the
- ATCERROR. ATCERROR is asserted when the ATCADDR address doesn't decode into address space
implemented within the ATCM wrapper.
- ATCM ECC
The ATCM interface in BPMP is protected using a 64-bit ECC scheme. The BootROM has the 8-bit ECC syndrome stored along with each 64-bit entry.

- BPMP Functional Description
- BTCM Interface
BTCM hosts the tightly coupled RAM for the BPMP. It is defined to be a 128 KiB RAM. BTCM is split into two ports: B0TCM and B1TCM. Both memories are wrapped in a BTCM wrapper. These memories are interleaved at 64-bit boundaries for higher performance.
- The default BTCM address is captured into the CP15 C9 BTCM region register by driving the
TCM_HI_INIT_ADDR build configuration option appropriately. The BTCM address therefore does not need to be reprogrammed into the CP15 C9 BTCM region register with the base of the B0TCM register.
- The BTCM region register is only programmed in privileged mode. The code programming this
register must adhere to the above base address for BTCM. Any mismatch in programming results in the Cortex-R5 request resulting in an error either on the BTCM or AXI interfaces.
- BTCM ECC
The BTCM interface in BPMP is protected using a 32-bit ECC scheme.
- Error Checking and Signaling
Accesses to BTCM signal an error when the particular access isn't allowed by the BTCM interface.
- When bit[1] and bit[2] of Auxiliary Control Register (ACTLR.B0TCMECEN and ACTLR.B1TCMECEN)
are set to 1, the error triggers an undefined exception on Cortex-R5 accesses or AXI slave error on AXI slave requests by asserting the B{0/1}TCERROR. B{0/1}TCERROR is asserted when any of the following happens: B{0/1}TCADDR address doesn't decode into address space implemented within the BTCM wrapper.
- The retention port for a TCM RAM bank is asserted and the TCM RAM bank is accessed. But
in the SoC, RAM sleep controls are not used.
- BTCM Error Injection
The BTCM interface supports injecting single- or double-bit errors to test the error detection logic.
- The error logic allows an error to be injected on a single Cortex-R5 to create a lock-step
miscompare, or on both Cortex-R5 processors. The error injection logic consists of an error MUX that is placed on the BTCM read data bus and an error control block that connects to the BTCM address bus. The SCE Cortex-R5 connections are the same except for a dedicated set of error MUXes.

- BPMP Functional Description
**Figure 4.39 BTCM Error Injection Block Diagram**
- BTCM Error Injection Controls
The error control block performs two major functions: Determining when to inject an error. Determining the channel and bit(s) to inject an error on. 1. 2.
- The error control block injects an error on the next read transaction received if
BTCM_ERR_CTL[ForceErr]=1, or if the error timer expires. The error timer is a 16-bit pre-loadable counter that increments when any read is received on the BTCM interface, except if the read is received one clock after an error is injected. The error timer can be configured in roll-over mode (BTCM_ERR_CTL[ErrTimerReloadEn]=1), or one-shot mode (BTCM_ERR_CTL[ErrTimerReloadEn]=0).

- BPMP Functional Description
The error control block uses a round robin arbiter to select the channel to inject an error if more than one read channel is active. The error control logic determines the location of the bit(s) to corrupt using a counter and two decoders. The counter increments on every BTCM read when BTCM_ERR_CTL[BitCntEn]=1. When
- BTCM_ERR_CTL[BitCntEn]=0, BTCM_ERR_CTL[BitCntLoad] can be used to specify a specific error
location. Since there are only thirty-nine bits per channel, the counter counts from zero to thirty- eight and then rolls over. The two decoders are used to create the bit location for a single- and double-bit error.
**Figure 4.40 Error Control Logic**
##### 4.3.2.3.3 BPMP DMA
BPMP DMA is a four-channel DMA controller. It is a four-channel variant of the central DMA (refer to the General Purpose Direct Memory Access (DMA) Engines chapter). The DMA is connected to the TX_REQ and RX_REQ signals from the following peripherals at the top level:
- QSPI controllers: QSPI0 and QSPI1
- UART controller
- PWR-I2C controller on the SoC rail

- BPMP Functional Description
- DMA Channel Mapping
- Block
- Tx DMA Request Port
- Rx DMA Request Port
(DMA_TX[31:0]) (DMA_RX[31:0])
- UART1 (for Boot)
- QSPI0
- PWR-I2C (SoC Rail)
- QSPI1
##### 4.3.2.3.4 DMA Access to the TCMs
- To access the TCMs, the DMA uses the MMIO-mapped address range of the TCMs
(BPMP_R5AXISLAVE_BPMP_BTCM).
##### 4.3.2.3.5 Arm Vectored Interrupt Controller
The Interrupt Controller for the BPMP is composed of two components: {Vector/Scalar} Interrupts driven through a pair of daisy-chained Arm PL192 vectored Interrupt controllers (AVIC) referred to as AVIC0 and AVIC1. Scalar Interrupts from the legacy Interrupt controller (LIC) that feed into the AVIC. The AVICs are hooked up to the BPMP cluster through the AXI2APB bridge on the BPMP-NIC. The AHB peripheral port of the Cortex-R5 processor is not used to hook up the AVIC. This enables the AXI2APB bridge to protect accesses to the AVIC configuration space. The AVIC port of the Cortex-R5 interfaces to the AVIC0 PL192 and enables the following functions in the hardware to minimize software overheads of servicing the Interrupt: Determine from the Interrupt controller which Interrupt source is requesting service. Determine where the service routine for that Interrupt source is loaded.
- Mask that Interrupt source before re-enabling processor Interrupts to permit another
Interrupt to be taken. The Interrupt connection to AVIC0 and AVIC1 uses the following rules:
- Local Interrupts originating from within the BPMP subsystem are connected to AVIC0 or
AVIC1 Interrupt inputs. These are vectored and have low Interrupt latency. A subset of global Interrupts is aggregated external to the BPMP in LIC and is presented as two aggregated Interrupts (LIC_FIQ and LIC_IRQ) form LIC - to AVIC1. These Interrupts are not vectored individually. While it is possible to service the Interrupts by reading VICADDRESS register in PL192, the low latency VIC port is used always (i.e., SCTLR.VE bit is set to enable VIC port).

- BPMP Functional Description
The AVIC is an AHB slave, whereas in the BPMP cluster it hooks up to an APB master.
- However, based on the features that are supported by the AVIC, it is straightforward to
hook up the AVIC AHB interface to an APB master.
- List of Interrupts
Local Interrupts from the BPMP cluster are routed directly to the AVICs. External Interrupts from outside the BPMP cluster reach the Cortex-R5 in two ways: aggregated through the LIC or directly routed to the BPMP AVICs. For the full list of BPMP Interrupts, refer to the Interrupt Controller chapter of this TRM.
##### 4.3.2.3.6 AVIC0 and AVIC1 Pin Connections
AVIC wrapper module parameters are: 1.
- SYNC_IRQFIQ_OUT
- If set to 1, the synchronizer cell is instanced at the AVIC nIRQ/nFIQ/VICVECTADDRV output
to Cortex-R5. 2.
- SYNC_IRQACK
If set to 1, the synchronizer cell is instanced at the AVIC VICIRQACK input from Cortex-R5. 3.
- USE_INTERNAL_RESET_SYNC
If set to 1, the wrapper passes the reset port through a reset synchronizer internally before connecting to the logic.
- AVIC Wrapper Parameters (NV defined)
- Instance Name
- SYNC_IRQ_FIQ
- SYNC_IRQ_ACK
- USE_INTERNAL_RESET_SYNC
- AVIC0
- AVIC1
- AVIC0 Pin Connections
- Signal [Cortex-R5 pin / AVIC1 pin / others]
- AVIC0 Pin [or others]
- Cortex-R5 nIRQ
nVICIRQ
- Cortex-R5 nFIQ
nVICFIQ
- AVIC1_VICVECTADDROUT[31:0]
- VICVECTADDRIN[31:0]
- Cortex-R5 IRQADDR
- VICVECTADDROUT[31:0]
- AVIC1_nVICIRQ
nVICIRQIN

- BPMP Functional Description
- Signal [Cortex-R5 pin / AVIC1 pin / others]
- AVIC0 Pin [or others]
- AVIC1_nVICFIQ
nVICFIQIN
- Tied to 0x0
- VICFIQINREG
- Tied to 0x0
- VICIRQINREG
- AVIC1_VICIRQACK
- VICIRQACKOUT
- Cortex-R5 IRQADDRV
- VICVECTADDRV
- Cortex-R5 IRQACK
- VICIRQACK
- Tied to 0b1 (sync mode with Cortex-R5)
nVICSYNCEN
- Cortex-R5 INTSYNCEN
- Tied to 0 (sync mode with AVIC0)
- Cortex-R5 IRQADDRVSYNCEN
- Tied to 0 (sync mode with AVIC0)
- AVIC1 Pin Connections
- Signal [Cortex-R5 pin / AVIC0 pin / others]
- AVIC1 Pin [or others]
- AVIC0_nVICIRQIN
nVICIRQ
- AVIC0_nVICFIQIN
nVICFIQ
- Tied to 0
- VICVECTADDRIN[31:0]
- AVIC0_VICVECTADDRIN[31:0]
- VICVECTADDROUT[31:0]
- LIC_IRQ
nVICIRQIN
- LIC_FIQ
nVICFIQIN
- Tied to 1 (LIC_FIQ is far away – and is registered at input to AVIC1)
- VICFIQINREG
- Tied to 1 (LIC_IRQ is far away – and is registered at input to AVIC1)
- VICIRQINREG
- Unconnected
- VICIRQACKOUT
- Unconnected
- VICVECTADDRV
- Tied to 1 (sync mode with AVIC0)
nVICSYNCEN
- AVIC0_VICIRQACKOUT
- VICIRQACK
##### 4.3.2.3.7 Interrupt Routing from LIC
- Aggregated Interrupts
Any of the LIC input Interrupts can be programmed to be routed to BPMP. The aggregated LIC_FIQ/ LIC_IRQ signals feed into two VICINTSOURCE pins of AVIC1. The LIC provides an NVIDIA secure channel for routing and managing Interrupts to each target processor, including BPMP.

- BPMP Functional Description
- Vectored Interrupts
Some external Interrupts feed directly into some of the VICINTSOURCE pins of AVIC0 and AVIC1.
- Interrupt Routing to LIC
Many modules in the BPMP cluster broadcast their Interrupts to both the LIC and the BPMP AVIC.
- Hardware synchronization Interrupts from the HSP module belong to this category. Routing
Interrupts to the LIC allow them to reach any target processor outside the BPMP cluster.
##### 4.3.2.3.8 Central Voltage Controller
Central Voltage Controller (CVC) caters to different power rails in the system, such as changing their voltage values, gating the rails etc., collectively referred to as “power rail requests” in this document. CVC receives power rail requests from a hardware module, namely, the AVFS via a proprietary sideband, as well as from software via register writes. Where it interfaces with hardware modules, the CVC acts as a quick-reacting voltage master. Where it interfaces with software, it acts as an off-load engine for BPMP for power rail related tasks.
**Figure 4.41 CVC Block Diagram**
- Supported Features
Accommodates up to six power rail requesters. Alters rail voltages by interacting with PMIC as a voltage master.
- Supports voltage up/down requests and special requests namely, rail gate, rail un-gate,
retention entry, and retention exit.
- Two AVFS corresponding to two CPU clusters and two new sidebands are connected to the
CVC.

- BPMP Functional Description
- TKE timer interrupt (bpmp_tke_tmr_irq3) is connected to CVC so that the timer expiry is
used as an event.
##### 4.3.2.3.9 Interfaces
- The CVC accommodates up to six power rail requesters. It correspondingly has six hardware
interfaces that can be connected to several AVFSs such as AVFS of a CPU cluster and AVFS of SoC rail. The AVFS(s) send power rail requests via this interface to the CVC. Some power rail requesters do not have AVFS modules and therefore, cannot use this hardware interface. But software makes power rail requests to the CVC on its behalf. In those cases, the hardware interfaces meant for these power rail requesters are tied off at the CVC boundary. Six power rail requesters may not correspond to six power rails. It is possible that two power rail requesters are making requests for the same rail. For example, two CPU clusters may be connected to the same CPU rail but may have one AVFS each, sending power rail requests to CVC independently of one another. In such cases, the software in the CVC digests these independent pieces of information and decides the right action to take regarding that power rail. Regardless of whether the requests originate in software or hardware, the CVC caters to them only after qualifying them against certain constraints. If the requests pass these constraints, the CVC, in a series of choreographed steps, command the PMIC to achieve appropriate changes in the requesting power rail’s state. In the SoC, there are four CPU clusters and therefore four AVFSs. But there are only two CPU rails – one rail each for a cluster pair.
- System Interconnect Interfaces
The CVC is located inside the BPMP cluster. It is an APB slave on the BPMP NoC. The CVC registers are accessed via this interface.
##### 4.3.2.3.10 Address Space Translation Module
- The BPMP cluster uses two address space translation (AST) modules, one for translating and
attributing the Cortex-R5 requests to system memory and another for translating and attributing the local DMA and CVC requests to system memory. The specification of the AST modules is provided in the Address Space Translation (AST) chapter.
##### 4.3.2.3.11 Debug Interface
Arm CoreSight is an architecture that decouples the logic talking to the external host from the logic talking to the internal debug logic. The architecture is modular, with a debug system being built from a set of compatible building blocks. The CoreSight debug APB interface only connects to the Cortex-R5, but not directly to other modules. However, as an MMIO master on the Control

- BPMP Functional Description
BackBone (CBB), CoreSight can access any register space inside the BPMP cluster, including the TCMs and caches over the AXI-S port of the Cortex-R5.
**Figure 4.42 BPMP DFD Connections**
##### 4.3.2.3.12 Mailboxes
- BPMP implements inter-processor communication (IPC) with the CCPLEX cores in CCPMU that is
assigned to interact with the BPMP, the SPE, the APE, the SCE and the gPMU. The BPMP cluster instances one Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP) module to communicate with the CCPLEX cores. Other IPC channels are implemented through other instances of HSP elsewhere on the chip as listed later in this subsection. Software supports multiple IPC models. In general, there is a shared buffer implemented as a one- way or two-way communication channel in some shared memory, on-chip (e.g., SysRAM) or off-chip (e.g., DRAM). Apart from the shared buffer, the HSP provides flags and provision for tokens and doorbells that are frequently used in IPC protocols. The table below details the configuration of the HSP module inside the BPMP cluster.
- Table 4.25 Configuration Details of HSP Instances
- Location of HSP
- Module
nS M nA S nS S nD B nSI
- Description
- BPMP HSP
- All Cortex-R5 clusters and the Cortex-A9 cluster use a similarly
configured HSP.
##### 4.3.2.3.13 Timekeeping Unit
- Cortex-R5 does not come with built-in timers, so the timers are integrated into the BPMP
subsystem with an external Timekeeping Engine (TKE). The architecture for a TKE is specified in the Timers chapter. The timekeeping unit provides the following functionalities:

- BPMP Functional Description
- Timers (NV_timers)
- Watchdog (WDT)
- Timestamp counter (TSC) read-back
The timekeeping unit instance in the BPMP cluster has the following configuration:
- Table 4.26 BPMP TKE Configuration
- Parameter
- Value
- Number of NV_timers (nT)
- Number of watchdogs (nW)
- Interrupt routing
- Disabled
- Number of shared Interrupts exposed
- TSC input type (Serial)
1 (Serial) The TKE uses an APB clock and an OSC clock. It also takes in a reference clock generated by the TSC module on Always-on domain.
##### 4.3.2.3.14 Watchdog Timer
A watchdog timer associated with Cortex-R5 in BPMP cluster is instanced to monitor Cortex-R5 health. The watchdog timer has robust restart mechanisms such as windowed watchdog and Q&A watchdog. The BPMP cluster has a dedicated watchdog timer instanced in the cluster as part of the TKE module. This enables us to architect the functionality of this timer as per the BPMP's specific requirements.
##### 4.3.2.3.15 Interrupt Timestamp
- The BPMP implements a timestamp module for logging the current TSC value when interrupts
occur.
#### 4.3.2.4 CCPLEX Power Management Interaction
The interaction with CCPLEX power management is limited to the following interfaces.
##### 4.3.2.4.1 CCPLEX Power Management-BPMP Communication Mailboxes
- The CCPLEX power management and BPMP communicate through local BPMP-HSP mailbox
Interrupts or doorbells provided in the Top0 Shared HSP module. For data payload, either SysRAM or DRAM or mailbox registers in HSP can be used.

- BPMP Functional Description
##### 4.3.2.4.2 AVFS Interface
CVC connects to the CCPLEX AVFS modules in the BCPU and MCPU clusters. Refer to the CVC and AVFS chapters for details.
##### 4.3.2.4.3 Secure MMIO interface
- The CCPLEX power manager is an MMIO master with its own NV-secure identity. CCPLEX power
manager can theoretically access any MMIO-mapped address within the BPMP cluster, including the BPMP's BTCM and caches, if the related SCRs are programmed to allow access to CCPLEX power management. There is one known case of CCPLEX power management requiring access to
- CCPLEX TSENSOR registers which are placed in a SHARED SCR group (TSENSOR_EXT_VALID
registers) so that CCPLEX power management can be granted access to disable the thermal sensors in specific CPU power states.
#### 4.3.2.5 BPMP Cluster Reset and Clocking
##### 4.3.2.5.1 Reset
- There are several independent reset domains in the BPMP that are able to independently
reset different parts of the Cortex-R5 and BPMP.
- Cortex-R5 Reset
- Cortex-R5 has the ability to start executing instructions as soon as its reset is released
(deasserted). Hence, it is important to ensure that the entire system is ready to accept instructions before Cortex-R5 is released out of reset.
- Table 4.27 Cortex-R5 Reset Domains
- Reset Domain
- Description
- ACPRESETn
- Since the BPMP Cortex-R5 subsystem doesn't have an ACP. This should be tied
inactive (to 1) nRESET CPU non-debug logic reset.
- Note: Whenever nRESET is asserted, it should be asserted for at least four
- CLKIN cycles for correct reset operation. This signal needs to be pulsed by the
watchdog timer on a "processor hang" if debug through reset is needed. nSYSPORRESET Cortex-R5 system reset. This resets the Cortex-R5 processor and debug logic.
- Note: Whenever nSYSPORESET is asserted, it should be asserted for at least
four CLKIN cycles for correct reset operation. nPRESETDBG Cortex-R5 Debug reset. Resets debug-domain debug logic and the APB interface of the CPU. nCPUHALT Prevents the Cortex-R5 from fetching code out of reset.

- BPMP Functional Description
- Reset Domain
- Description
- DBGRESETn
Cortex-R5 Debug reset.
- Resets core-domain debug logic. This includes breakpoints, watchpoints, and
the DCC registers.
- BPMP Reset
There are three groups of resets in the BPMP as shown below. They are grouped so that the reset assertion and de-assertion can be understood in terms of a group of signals rather than a bunch of independent signals.
- Table 4.28 Reset Levels in BPMP
- Group 0
- Group 1
- Group 2
- System reset
- All BPMP resets, except for Groups 2 and 3
resets nSYSPORRESET, nRESET,
- ARSTn, CRSTn, LRSTn, VIC0, VIC1
The order of deassertion of resets on cold boot are from Level 0 through Level 3. Group 0 reset is the system reset. This is controlled by the central CAR module.
- Group 1 resets include most of the resets of BPMP (except the Group 2 and Group 3). This
reset group is deasserted when Level 0 group reset is released/deasserted. DBGRESETn and nPRESETDBG may be extended up to four clocks after the Group 1 reset deasserts. Group 2 reset group is primarily the Cortex-R5 and PL192 resets. This is the last module in the BPMP cluster that comes out of reset. The rest of the cluster is ready to receive and process Cortex-R5 requests as soon as Cortex-R5 is released. The Group 2 reset is the same as Group 1 reset, except it may be extended up to four clocks.
##### 4.3.2.5.2 Clocking
The primary clock for BPMP complex is the clock used by Cortex-R5 (called bpmp_cpu_clk). The bpmp_cpu_clk must be able to run at various lower frequencies (preferably with fine granularity) to reduce the energy overhead of running a power management processor in low power use cases.
- BPMP Cluster Clocking
There are essentially three groups of clocks in the BPMP cluster and the main BPMP clock gets sourced from the OSC clock. All clocks in the cluster are sourced from the OSC coming out of reset. During cold and warm boot, Boot ROM switches the clock sources for BPMP to PLLP.
- Core Processor Group
These is a group of clocks that run at the same frequency as the processor. These are the core processor clocks: the bpmp_cpu_clk, the ATCM/ROM clock, and the BTCM clock.

- BPMP Functional Description
- Processor Subsystem Group
This is the group of interfaces that interface with the processor or the NIC and run at a ratio divide down clock frequencies. These are the AXI master, the AXI peripheral, the AXI slave, and the APB debug interface. This group also includes the AXI clocks for the non-R5 BPMP NIC master and slave ports and module logic that works on the AXI clocks such as AST, DMA, CVC, and the APB bridge. The BPMP-NIC supports a C-channel low power interface for clock gating the logic in the NIC. The implementation supports peripheral, i.e., NIC initiated low power exit mode as described in the AMBA AXI protocol specification for low power clock control. This feature cannot be overridden.
- BPMP Subsystem Group
This is primarily composed of all the APB clocks and the timer interface. The processor subsystem group and the BPMP subsystem group of clocks use fractional dividers. The logic using the ratio synchronous clocks (bpmp_nic_clk) meets timing in 1:1 mode with respect to bpmp_cpu_clk. Hence, there is no duty cycle constraint on the bpmp_nic_clk ratio synchronous clock. The divided mode is used to mitigate dynamic power consumed by the BPMP cluster when the processor scales its frequency up to meet its performance requirements.
##### 4.3.2.5.3 Default Clock Sources
In boot modes (cold boot, warm boot, or SC7 boot), all clocks default to the RO/ OSC source. The Cortex-R5 and the backbone clocks for the boot modules are switched to the PLLP source by Boot ROM subsequently once the PLLP lock is detected. In SC7 boot mode, the PLLP is auto-started by logic in an always-on (AO) cluster.
- When the BPMP switches to Power Management mode, the BPMP-FW changes the clock source to
the BPMPCAMPLL or the dedicated BPMP NAFLL for optimal performance.

- CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
5. CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
