# 9.4 Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing
(PinMux)
### 9.4.1 Overview
This chapter discusses the features and capabilities of the Multi-purpose I/O (MPIO) pads, and how to configure their multiplexing so that the same group of MPIO's can serve multiple functions for different applications, hence Pin Multiplexing (PinMux). These are part of the pad-ring, which is a compilation of pads, custom cells, and related test logic along the periphery of the die. The following key words are used in the description of the PinMux: Pad - A Pad is typically a circuit logic block with single-ended signaling circuitry to interface with the external world. Brick - A Brick is typically a high-speed I/O circuit block with differential signaling circuitry to interface with the external world, such as the PLL pins. A Brick can also be a collection of single-end driver/receiver pads, such as those used for the EMMC interface.
- Pin - A Pin is a BGA ball in the SoC package that is the Pad's/brick's connection to the
external world. It is synonymous to and used interchangeably with the term "I/O" in the descriptions of this chapter. Scope of This Chapter:
- MPIO pad types
- MPIO pad controls
- Pad control units
- MPIO pad features low power, back-drive

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Low-power features of MPIO pads
- PinMux scheme
- Generic programming considerations of pad controls
- Default pin states and pull-up/down selection
- Misc system arch aspects applicable to MPIO pads
Registers for PinMux selection, I/O capabilities including electrical control settings. PinMux allows a single MPIO pad or a group of MPIO pads to be used by multiple low-speed I/O controllers, including the General-Purpose Input/Output pad (GPIO) controller. Depending on the platform use case, the PinMux logic can be programmed/configured to allow any specific controller the exclusive use of the assigned MPIOs. The configuration is static and determined by Orin system platform requirements. With Pin Multiplexing, the total number of I/Os required for Orin can thus be optimized. The PinMux scheme includes multiple groups of MPIO pads, each of which is shared by a number of low-speed I/O controllers, including the GPIO controller. A Pad control unit with configuration registers is associated with each of these MPIO pads groups to achieve the following:
- PinMux selection (selecting specific controller for its exclusive use of the group of MPIO
pads) I/O capabilities of the MPIO pads group
- Electrical settings of the MPIO pads group
Notes: 1. 2. Details of the pad/brick circuit design are not discussed except for their usage and features.
- Refer to the corresponding chapters of the various Low-speed Interfaces which are
connected to the PinMux logic for specific programming sequences.
- High-Speed I/O (HSIO) interfaces such as PCIe, USB3.x, SATA, and UFS do not use MPIO pads,
do not support PinMuxing, and are not discussed in this chapter. Refer to the HSIO Cluster chapter and related sections for features and programming guidelines.
- PinMux details are provided by NVIDIA in the form of a spreadsheet simply referred to just
as Pinmux. Please refer to the NVIDIA support web-sites, or ask your NVIDIA representative for details. 3. 4. The following diagram illustrates how PinMux multiplexes different Orin I/O signals (Such as UART, I2S, SPI, and PWM as an example) to use one common MPIO pad (group).

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
**Figure 9.40 PinMux Illustration**
#### 9.4.1.1 Standard and Compatibility
The MPIO pads used in Pin Multiplexing support various low-speed interfaces as well as the control sideband signals for high-speed interfaces. Each of the MPIO pad types is designed to comply with the interface standards including their electrical specifications. The table below lists the MPIO pad types and the interfaces they support.
- Table 9.31 MPIO Pad Types and Supported Interfaces
- MPIO Pad Type
- MPIO Pad
- Name
- Supported Interfaces/Devices
- ST
- BDPGLP
UART, SPI, I2S, Various peripheral sideband GPIOs.
- OD
- BDPGLPHVIN
- I2C, PCIe sidebands, SPI, UART, DP-AUX sidebands, HDMI CEC, USB VBUS
controls.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- MPIO Pad Type
- MPIO Pad
- Name
- Supported Interfaces/Devices
- CZ
- BDSDMEM
SD, SDIO, EMMC, I2S, CAN.
- LV_CZ
- BDSDMEMLV
QSPI, RGMII, UFS sidebands.
- JT_RST
- BILPRST
JTAG. For details of how these interfaces are implemented in Orin, refer to the relevant LSIO and HSIO chapters in this TRM.
#### 9.4.1.2 Glossary
Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire Orin TRM is put in perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the Multi-Purpose I/Os and Pin Multiplexing chapter.
- Term
- Definition
- AON I/O Rails
I/O rails VDDIO_SYS, VDDIO_AO, and VDDIO_AO_HV serving as AON cluster logic are referred as AON I/O rails
- CV
- Computer Vision
- CZ
- Controlled Impedance Pad
- DD
- Dual Driver CMOS Pad
- DFT
- Design For Test
- DPD
- Deep Power Down (Pad Low-Power Mode)
- GPIO
- General Purpose I/O
- HPD
- Hot Plug Detect
- HSIO
- High-Speed I/O
- IST
- In-System Test
- LSIO
- Low-Speed I/O
- LSM
- Latent fault mechanism
- LV
- Low-Voltage Pad
- MB
- Micro-Boot
- MPIO
- Multi Purpose I/O
- OBS
- Observation Bus
- OD
- Open Drain

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Term
- Definition
- PAD Group
- Collection of pads sharing the same I/O supply/power ball
- Padlet
Logical group of pads sharing I/O voltage along with pad control registers, PinMux logic, test logic such as - boundary scan, etc.
- PD
- Pull-Down
- PMIC
Power Management IC (a board-level component primarily with the voltage regulation functions)
- PU
- Pull-Up
- PWM
- Pulse Width Modulation
- SFIO
- Special Functional I/O
(the specific I/O meant for some functional interface connected with hardware controller unit)
- ST
- Standard CMOS Pad
- TMC
Test Mode Controller (spreading across multiple units with its overrides driven from the DFT logic) miniTMC is the Test Mode Controller part of the DFT logic.
- VR
- Voltage Regulator
#### 9.4.1.3 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Address Map
- Controller Area Network (CAN)
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- Functional safety Island (FSI)
- GPIO Controllers
- Hardware Safety Manager (HSM)
- High-Speed I/O Cluster (HSIO)
- I2C Controller
- MIPI M-PHY (MPHY)
- Memory Sub-System (MSS)
- PCIe Complex (PCIe)
- Power Management Controller (PMC)
- Platform Security Controller (PSC)
- Pulse Width Modulation (PWM)
- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- SD and MMC Controller (SDMMC)

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Universal Flash Storage Complex (UFS)
- USB Complex (USB)
#### 9.4.1.4 MPIO Pad Features
Each MPIO pad consists of:
- An output driver with
- Tri-state capability,
- Drive strength controls,
Push-Pull mode, Open-Drain mode, or both.
- An input receiver with
Schmitt mode, CMOS mode, or both. A weak pull-up and a weak pull-down. The Orin SoC has five types of MPIO pads as summarized in the following table.
- Table 9.32 MPIO Pad Types
- Drive
- Strength
- Control
- Pad Name
(Type)
- IO Swing
- Input Buffer
- Output
- Buffer
- Nominal Pull
- Strength
- Slew
- Rate
- Control
- BDPGLP_*
(ST [1])
## 1.8 V
- Schmitt (300 mV)
& CMOS
- Push-Pull
& Open Drain (emulation mode) 50 KΩ +/- 15%
- No
5 bits (up and down)
- BDPGLPHVIN
_* (OD [2])
## 1.8 V
- Schmitt (200/190
mV) [5] & CMOS
- Push-Pull
& Open Drain 50 KΩ +/- 15%
- Yes
5 bits (up and down)
- BDSDMEM_*
(CZ [3]) 1.8/3.3 V
- Schmitt
& CMOS
- Push-Pull
& Open Drain (emulation mode) 20 KΩ +/- 35% 2 bits (up and down) 7 bits (up and down)
- BDSDMEMLV
_* (LV_CZ [4]) 1.2/1.8 V
- Schmitt
& CMOS
- Push-Pull
18 KΩ +/- 30% 2 bits (up and down) 5 bits (up and down)
- BILPRST_*
(ST type input only)
## 1.8 V
- Schmitt
& CMOS
- Push-Pull
& Open Drain (emulation mode) 50 KΩ +/- 15%
- No
- No
NOTES:

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
[1] The ST (Standard) MPIO pad is the most common pad on the chip. It is used for typical General Purpose I/Os (GPIOs) and various other slow-speed (< 100 MHz) interfaces. [2] The OD (Open-Drain) MPIO pad is similar to the ST pad with the additional provision of tolerating I/O voltage level up to 3.3 V when the pad’s output driver is set to Open-Drain mode for Interfaces like I2C, USB VBUS, PCIe side bands, HDMI CEC, and Display HPD signals. Special power-sequencing steps must be taken when using this feature to ensure that the pad operates without any damage or reliability concerns. [3] The CZ (Controlled output Impedance) MPIO pad is optimized for use in applications requiring tightly controlled output impedance for high I/O frequencies (100 ~ 300 MHz). It is similar to the ST pad with the additional Dual-Driver (1.8 V or 3.3 V I/O swing) support and changes in drive strength circuitry of the weak pull-up/down. [4] The LV_CZ (Low Voltage Controlled Impedance) pad is a variation of the CZ pad with dual voltage selection between 1.8 V or 1.2 V I/O swing. [5] (E_IO_HV == 0), 200 mV & (E_IO_HV == 1), 190 mV. (See the corresponding PinMux registers.)
##### 9.4.1.4.1 Special Purpose Pad Types
Beyond pad types covered so far, we have some special purpose pads used for targeted purpose.
- Note that these special purpose MPIO pads are different from PHYs used for high-speed
differential interfaces like USB, Display, etc.
- Table 9.33 Special Purpose Pad Types
- Brief Description
- Pad Name
- Pad
I/O Rail
- Voltage
- Functio
nal
- Name
- CZ_COMP
1.8/3.3 V
- SDMMC
- Calibratio
n Pads
- Used for generating PVT compensated impedance calibration
code for the SDMEM pads (typically used for interfacing
- SDMMC devices). It is connected to GND external reference
resistor of 50 Ω with ± 1% variation.
- Circuitry within the Orin SoC continuously matches the
output impedance of the CZ pad to the on-board pull-up resistors attached to the CZ_COMP pad.
- BDSDMEMCOM
P_*
- LV_CZ_COM
P
## 1.8 V
eMMC
- Calibratio
n Pads Same as MEM_COMP but can operated at lower I/O voltage.
- Circuitry within the Orin SoC continuously matches the
output impedance of the LV-CZ pad to the on-board pull-up resistors attached to the LV_CZ_COMP pad.
- BSDMEMLVCOM
P_*

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Brief Description
- Pad Name
- Pad
I/O Rail
- Voltage
- Functio
nal
- Name
- JT_RST
## 1.8 V
- JTAG and
- Reset
- Pads
(Input
- Only)
Used for JTAG (except JTAG TDO) and Reset interface.
- Has a special mode of operation called VDD only mode where
in the pad becomes operational without having the I/O rail up. This mode of operation is needed for Reset pads which must propagate the Reset before I/O rails are up. This is achieved by Logic0 tie-off to RCVR_SEL pin of this pad.
- Beyond SYS_RESET_N pin, JTAG pin, JTAG mode selection
pins also follow similar usage with tie-off to RCVR_SEL pad input.
- BILPRST_*
##### 9.4.1.4.2 MPIO Pad Variations
Within each standard MPIO pad types there are variations that are mainly associated with the way how pads behave during DPD mode and availability some specific features in DPD. There are three distinct types of variations in each type. Based on the functional and power choices appropriate pad type shall be chosen for each pin.
- Table 9.34 MPIO Pad Variations
- Output
- Values
- PU/PD
- Availability
- During DPD [1]
- Pad Type
- Extension
- Usage
S.N o
- Input
- Receiver
in DPD
- YES
- VDP1P1P1 [2]
- Used for pins that need to be active when core
supply (VDD_SOC == OFF).
- ENABLED
- DYNAM
- IC
- ENABLED
- STATIC
- YES
- VDVXP1P1P1
- Used for pins that need to be active during chip
DPD power states.
- Since the input receive is enabled, can be used for
pins used Wake events.
- Lesser leakage power than *VDP1P1P1 type pads
since only input receive logic is active.
- DISABLED
- STATIC
- YES
- VXVDP1P1P1
[3]
- Since receiver is DISABLED can’t be used for signals
acting as Wake events.
- Consumes less leakage power of all pad variants as
even input receiver circuits are also in disabled state. N/A N/A N/A
- R90
- Pad physical orientation is North-South, default pad
type orientation is West-East. NOTES: [1] PU is not available in DPD by nature of the pad.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
[2] This variation is available only in BDPGLP_*, BDPGLPHVIN_*, BILPRST_* pads. These pads do have the DPD latching circuit like the VDVXP1P1P1 pad type and support entering in the DPD (Deep Power Down) mode with SEL_DPD/E_DPD sequencing. This mechanism (in lieu of removing the DPD latching and circuitry) is chosen for the flexibility to park in a state during
- DPD. Hence, the VDP1P1P1 and VDVXP1P1P1 pad are the same structurally except for their
power domains. The BILPRST_* pad does not support the DPD mode or Low-Power mode. (In Low-Power mode, the pad drives output state based on pad controls latched before entering in the Low-Power mode.). [3] The pad type BDSDMEM_* and BDSDMEMLV_ deviates from the general MPIO pad type variation. These types of pads have single VXVD pad type with wake capability selection through an additional pin. When additional input pin “WAKE_PAD” is tied to 1, it behaves like the VDVX pad with input receiver enabled for wake functionality. When additional input pin “WAKE_PAD” is tied to 0, it behaves like th VXVD pad with receiver disabled.
##### 9.4.1.4.3 MPIO Pad Low-Power Modes and Features
The following table summarizes the different power modes of the MPIO pads.
- Table 9.35 MPIO Pad Low-Power Modes and Features
- Description
- Usage
- Remarks
- Mode
- Rail Status and
- DPD Control
- Setting
- OFF
I/O Rail (OFF)
- VDD_RTC (OFF)
- VAUX_CORE (OFF)
- Control Inputs (Don’t-
- Care)
- Pad circuits are fully
- OFF and non-
functional and consuming zero power.
- System OFF
state
- STANDBY
(NO
- RETENTION)
I/O Rail (OFF)
- VDD_RTC (ON)
- VAUX_CORE (OFF)
(E_DPD = 1) (SEL_DPD = 1)
- Pads circuits are
- OFF except for the
- VDD_RTC portion of
the circuit.
- Consumes minimal
leakage in the always-on [AO] portion of the circuit operating in VDD_RTC.
- SC7 State
- Specific Interface’s I/O rail can be
turned OFF and no I/O state is retained.
- Since the core rail is OFF, E_DPD
and SEL_DPD should be at Logic1.
- STANDBY
I/O Rail (ON)
- VDD_RTC (ON)
- VAUX_CORE (OFF)
(E_DPD = 1) (SEL_DPD = 1)
- Pads are holding the
I/O state but core rail is OFF and hence consuming minimal power.
- SC7 State
I/O states are retained through holding latches inside the pads

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Description
- Usage
- Remarks
- Mode
- Rail Status and
- DPD Control
- Setting
- LOGICAL DPD
I/O Rail (ON)
- VDD_RTC (ON)
- VAUX_CORE (ON)
(E_DPD = 0) (SEL_DPD = 1)
- Pads are holding the
I/O state but core rail is not OFF and hence consuming normal power.
- Transitory state
and I/O values are retained.
- No power benefit in this mode since
core rail is ON. However, software can possibly go through this state as and when the interface is becoming IDLE to reach the
- STANDBY state
- It happens with software sequences
for power saving to DPD state.
- LOGICAL DPD
(I/O OFF) I/O Rail (OFF)
- VDD_RTC (ON)
- VAUX_CORE (ON)
(E_DPD = 0) (SEL_DPD = 1)
- Pads are not holding
the I/O state but core rail is not OFF and hence consuming normal power.
- Transitory state
and I/O Values are not retained.
- Used by the software to transit
from STANDBY-NO RETENTION to Functional Status Inactive state.
- INACTIVE
I/O Rail (OFF)
- VDD_RTC (ON)
- VAUX_CORE (ON)
(E_DPD = 0) (SEL_DPD = 0)
- Pads are functional
from Core side but I/O rails are kept
- OFF
- Transitory state
needed to for transitioning to
- Low-Power
states.
- This happens when I/O rails are
powering up time windows during system active-LOW power states.
- FUNCTIONAL
(ACTIVE) I/O Rail (ON)
- VDD_RTC (ON)
- VAUX_CORE (ON)
(E_DPD = 0) (SEL_DPD = 0)
- Normal mode and
pads consume both
- Static and Dynamic
power
- Normal
functional usage
##### 9.4.1.4.4 MPIO Pad Electrical Control Features
General purpose pads support features to cater to the electrical requirements of multiple slow speed interfaces and GPIO pins. The following list provides the features common to all MPIO pads. A further complete list of electrical features by pad type is covered in the Electrical Controls section. Weak Pull-up: I/O driver pulls up the line irrespective of pull-up resistor on board. Maps to PUPD bit field in pad control register. Weak Pull-down: I/O driver pulls down the line irrespective of pull-up resister on board. Maps to PUPD bit field in pad control register.
- Programmable Output pull-up/pull-down drive strength: Enables to program different drive
strengths required by different external bridges, codecs, and such devices in the system. Maps to CFG_CAL_DRVUP/DN fields in pad control register. Schmitt receiver: Enables Schmitt receiver in input receiver circuit. Enabling Schmitt provides better noise margin characteristics for the input and depending on driver’s logic threshold levels this can be enabled. Maps to E_SCHMT bit field in pad control register.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
Input receiver: Controls whether the input path (receiver portion of I/O driver) is enabled or not. Generally disabled for most of the pads except those needed for boot. Maps to E_INPUT bit field in pad control register.
- Pad output state: Top Level override to float Pad Output irrespective of the actual PinMux
Control. Useful to get the correct default values and while switching PinMux to GPIO mode of operation (though such switching is not recommended in general). Maps to TRISTATE bit field in pad control register. TRISTATE = 0x0: Pad I/O driver is DRIVEN (Some of the critical pads, typically PMIC interface pads, clock pads, etc. The Default status are driven to ensure correct values are driven to the PMIC or external device). TRISTATE = 0x1:
- Pad I/O drive is FLOATED (actual value on the pad output depends on the Weak Pull-up/Pull-
down control in the respective PUPD fields. Boot Loader software enables this field to driven state before starts using the pad in output mode. Same applies to peripheral interface drivers which shall configure pad control fields during the interface initialization. Other than the PMIC Interface related pads, The Power-On Reset default is FLOATED so that every unused pin is in the OUTPUT FLOATED/Weak-PU/PD state.
##### 9.4.1.4.5 Electrical Controls
The following table summarizes the electrical controls of MPIO pads. All these electrical controls are configurable through pad control registers. For more details of electrical controls or more pad types, refer to pad control registers.
- Table 9.36 BDSDMEM Electrical Controls (BDSDMEM Variants)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain [1]
- Description
E_INPUT
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables receiver path I/O → ZI/TZI. E_SCHMT
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables Schmitt trigger in the receiver. E_LPBK
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables loopback mode A → ZI/TZI.
- DRV_TYPE_[0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
1x/2x I/O driver selection.
- DRV_TYPE_[1]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Drive codes selection: COMP pad driven codes or pad default codes.
- DRVUP_DEF_[1:0
]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Back-up default driver output pull-up control code.
- Applied Drive up/down codes (0, 1, DRVUP_DEF[1], DRVUP_DEF[0],
0).

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain [1]
- Description
DRVDN_DEF_[1: 0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Back-up default driver output pull-down control code.
- Applied Drive up/down codes (0, 1, DRVDN_DEF[1], DRVDN_DEF[0],
0). E_PULLU
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables weak pull-up (20 KΩ ± 35%). E_PULLD
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables weak pull-down (20 KΩ ± 35%). E_PBIAS_BUF
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables internally generated bias for driver PMOS in 3.3 V mode.
- Selects strong driver with internally generated 0.5*VDDP when VDDP
is LOW and VCLAMP is HIGH. Wrong setting combination with VREF_SEL may cause electrical stress resulting in pad damage.
- VREF_SEL_[3:0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Select different bias levels for driver PMOS, when (E_PBIAS_BUF ==
1)
- SCHMIT_[1:0] [2]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Schmitt trigger hysteresis window control. Notes: [1] The VDD_SOC/ VDD_RTC power domain depends on VXVD (or VDVX)/VD* variant respectively. [2] Schmitt trigger hysteresis controls are as follows: (E33V == 1) (E33V == 0)
- SCH
- MIT_[
1:0]
- VIL
- VIH
window
- VIL
- VIH
window 1.13 1.15 0.02 0.89 0.90 0.01 1.09 1.18 0.09 0.84 0.93 0.09 1.06 1.22 0.16 0.80 0.97 0.17 1.02 1.28 0.26 0.76 1.01 0.25
- Table 9.37 BDSDMEMLV Electrical Controls (BDSDMEMLV Variants)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
E_INPUT
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables receiver path I/O → ZI/TZI
E_SCHMT
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables Schmitt trigger in the receiver
E_HSM
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Reserved.
- IO_RESET_N
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Reserved.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
E_PREEMP
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Reserved. E_LPBK
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables loopback mode
- DRV_TYPE_[0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
1x/2x I/O driver selection
- DRV_TYPE_[1]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Drive codes selection: COMP pad driven codes or default codes. E_PULLU
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables weak pull-up (~18 KΩ ± 30%). E_PULLD
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
Enables weak pull-down (~18 KΩ ± 30%).
- DRVDN_[7:0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
I/O Driver Output Pull-Down drive strength code
- DRVUP_[7:0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
I/O Driver Output Pull-Up drive strength code Note: VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC power domain depends on VXVD (or VDVX)/VD* variant respectively.
- Table 9.38 BDPGLP, BDPGLPHVIN Electrical Controls (BDPGLP, BDPGLPHVIN Variants)
- Signal Name
- In/Out
- Power Domain
- Description
E_INPUT
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables receiver path I/O → ZI/TZI
E_SCHMT
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables Schmitt trigger in the receiver
E_LPBK
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables loopback mode A -> ZI/TZI
E_PULLU
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables weak pull-up (~100 KΩ ± 15%)
E_PULLD
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables weak pull-down (~100 KΩ ± 15%)
- DRVDN[4:0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
I/O Driver Output Pull-Down drive strength code
- DRVUP[4:0]
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
I/O Driver Output Pull-Up drive strength code E_LPDR
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Disables most base driver fingers, leaving only minimal base driver
finger. Enabled for I2C interface to meet slow rise/fall time spec of low-speed modes. E_IO_HV
- In
- VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC
- Enables open-drain pull-up capability to 3.3 V. Enables 3.3 V
Receiver. Relevant for BDPGLPHVIN* variant pad only. Note: VDD_SOC/VDD_RTC power domain depends on VXVD(or VDVX)/VD* variant respectively.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Table 9.39 BILPRST Electrical Controls (BILPRST_VD Variants)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
- RCVR_SEL
- In
- VDD_RTC
Selects between VDD-ONLY or VDD-AND-VDDP receivers. 0: Selects VDD-ONLY Receiver 1: Selects VDD-AND-VDDP Receiver
##### 9.4.1.4.6 Power Sequence Controls
Power sequence controls are the specific controls to handle sequencing in and out of different power states a MPIO pad supports.
- Table 9.40 BDSDMEM Power Sequence Controls (BDSDMEMVD*, BDSDMEMVXVD)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
E_33V
- In
- VDD_RTC
Selection of 1.8/3.3 V I/O output voltage swing.
- SEL_DPD
- In
- VDD_TRC
- Latches state of I/O set by E_33V/E_PULLU/E_PULLD and data level
shifters. E_DPD
- In
- VDD_RTC
- Places pad in DPD mode by deactivating bias, clamping settings for
DPD mode.
- Table 9.41 BDSDMEMLV Power Sequence Controls (BDSDMEMLV_VXVD)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
E_18V
- In
- VDD_RTC
Selection of 1.8/1.2 V I/O output voltage swing.
- SEL_DPD
- In
- VDD_TRC
- Latches state of I/O set by E_18V/E_PULLU/E_PULLD and data level
shifters. E_DPD
- In
- VDD_RTC
- Places pad in DPD mode by deactivating bias, clamping settings for
DPD mode.
- Table 9.42 EMMCIO_BRICK Power Sequence Controls (BDEMMC_IOBRICK)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
- SEL_DPD
- In
- VDD_TRC
- Latches state of I/O set by E_18V/E_PULLU/E_PULLD and data level
shifters. Disable Rx. E_DPD
- In
- VDD_RTC
- Places pad in DPD mode by deactivating bias, clamping settings for
DPD mode, and gating-out inputs from core.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Table 9.43 BDPGLP Power Sequence Controls (BDPGLP_VD, BDPGLP_VDVX, BDPGLP_VXVD)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
- SEL_DPD
- In
- VDD_TRC
- Latches state of I/O set by E_18V/E_PULLU/E_PULLD and data level
shifters. E_DPD
- In
- VDD_RTC
- Places pad in DPD mode by deactivating bias, clamping settings for
DPD mode. Notes: For VD variants, all the pad inputs and outputs are in VDD_RTC power domain. VDD_RTC/VDD_SOC power domain depends on VDVX/VXVD variant respectively.
- Table 9.44 BDPGLPHVIN Power Sequence Controls (BDPGLPHVIN_VD, BDPGLP_HVIN_VDVX,
- BDPGLP_HVIN_VXVD)
- Signal Name
- In/
- Out
- Power Domain
- Description
- SEL_DPD
- In
- VDD_TRC
- Latches state of I/O set by E_18V/E_PULLU/E_PULLD and data level
shifters. E_DPD
- In
- VDD_RTC
- Places pad in DPD mode by deactivating bias, clamping settings for
DPD mode. Note: VDD_RTC/VDD_SOC power domain depends on VDVX/VXVD variant respectively.
#### 9.4.1.5 Pad Control Unit
Pad control units are the APB clients with register banks for pad controls and PinMux selection.
- The pad controls provide option to program the pad electrical characteristics depending on
platform design and/or connected devices. Each pad control units consists of registers for multiple pads of a PAD group. The following diagram shows the I/O of a Pad Control Unit.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
**Figure 9.41 Pad Control Unit and Its I/O**
#### 9.4.1.6 Pad Control Grouping
The Orin Pad control units are grouped by functions as listed in the following table.
- Table 9.45 Orin Pad Control Groups
- Pad Control Group
- GPIO Support
- Control Registers Base Address Block
- AO
- Yes
- PADCTL_A14
- AO_HV
- Yes
- PADCTL_A15
- DEBUG
- Yes
- PADCTL_A5
- EDP
- Yes
- PADCTL_A16
- EMMC
- No
- PADCTL_A6
- EQOS
- Yes
- PADCTL_A21
- PEX_CTL
- Yes
- PADCTL_A7
- PEX_CTL_2
- Yes
- PADCTL_A20
- PEX_CTL_3
- Yes
- PADCTL_A25
- QSPI
- Yes
- PADCTL_A11
- SDMM1_HV
- Yes
- PADCTL_A8
- SYS
- Yes
- PADCTL_A12
- UFS
- Yes
- PADCTL_A17
- G2
- Yes
- PADCTL_A13
- G3
- Yes
- PADCTL_A0
- G4
- Yes
- PADCTL_A4
- G5
- Yes
- PADCTL_A2
- G7
- Yes
- PADCTL_A24

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Pad Control Group
- GPIO Support
- Control Registers Base Address Block
- G8
- No
- PSC_PADCTL
- G9
- Yes
- FSI_PADCTL_A0
- G10
- Yes
- FSI_PADCTL_A1
- G11
- Yes
- FSI_PADCTL_A2
#### 9.4.1.7 PinMux
The concept of PinMux logic is to share the same pin for multiple interfaces which aren’t active at the same time in every platform. Sharing of pins using PinMux optimizes the number of pins required in SoC thus reducing the cost of die. Orin connects to various peripherals on different platforms, but not all peripherals in single platform. Based on targeted market segment platform goals, we arrive at PinMuxing selection. Respective platform software shall configure the pins at boot or post-boot stages prior to communication with related peripheral devices. PinMux option per pin consists of: 1. Sharing the pin with four different Special Functional I/Os (SFIOs) and one GPIO, i.e. a pin that is not required for SFIO can be used by GPIO-driven software. Override provision to float the pad outputs irrespective of the driving SFIO controller. 2. The PinMux Controller includes the logic and registers to select a pin for one of the four SFIO. The following diagram shows the PinMux logic associated with a single MPIO pad. The diagram also shows interface with various units and polarity of the signals at the interface level. At pad level when (ENB == 1), the output drivers are disabled.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
**Figure 9.42 PinMux Logic**
##### 9.4.1.7.1 PinMuxed Interfaces
The following table provides a high-level list of interfaces connected with PinMux logic. Note that this also covers the cases of interfaces which have only one SFIO usage (i.e. only one PinMux option) and possible to use as GPIO pin. For signal level muxing details, refer to the Orin Pinmux document.
- Table 9.46 Interfaces Connected Using PinMux Logic
S.
- No
- Interface Name/
- IO Rail
- Brief Description
- Pin-out Spec Reference
- SDMMC
- For Interfacing with WiFi modem etc. or for the 2nd
- SDMMC1
Removable SD card.
- EAVB
- For Automotive Ethernet Audio Video Bridge
- EQOS
- UART
- For connecting various peripherals like BT via UART
and Audio codec/FM etc. via I2S interfaces
- UART
- I2S
- For various Audio Codec and Digital Speakers
- I2S1-I2S8
- DMIC, DSPKR, IQC
- Digital Mike, Codec, DAB Interface for automotive
- DMIC1- DMIC5
- DSPKR0, DSPKR1

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
S.
- No
- Interface Name/
- IO Rail
- Brief Description
- Pin-out Spec Reference
- I2C
- Connection to various sensors, VRs, GMSL
aggregators, etc.
- I2C1, I2C2, I2C3, I2C4, I2C5, I2C6,
- I2C7, I2C8, I2C9, I2C10, I2C15
- QSPI
- QSPI interface (automotive boot media)
- QSP0*, QSPI1*
- CAN
- Interface to the CAN PHY
- CAN0*, CAN1*
- DIRECTDC
- Debug Interface
- DIRECTDC1*
- SPI
- Touch device in Mobile, MCU connection in
- Automotive, Serial flash for BIOS in Chrome
platform etc.
- SPI1*, SPI2*, SPI3*, SPI4*, SPI5*
- PWM
- Connection to high-current power regulators and
FAN.
- PWM1 ~ PWM8
- DP-AUX
Display interface sideband channel.
- DP_AUX_CH0*
### 9.4.2 Functional Description
#### 9.4.2.1 Programmable Drive Strength Capabilities
This section summarizes the programmable drive strength capabilities of various pads in the granularity of pad groups. 1. SDMEM pads which do not have calibration pad, do not have programmable drive strength registers. The DRVUP_VCLAMP [6:0]/DRVDN_VCLAMP [6:0] codes are hard wired to corresponding power group VCLAMP and GND respectively. Pins in the following pad group have a 2-bit back-up drive strength control:
- AO_HV, AUDIO_HV
2. SDMEMLV pads without calibration pad have programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad group:
- UFS, EQOS
3. BDPGLP, BDPGLPHVIN pads without calibration pad have programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad groups: All CONN, CAM, and MPIO pad groups as listed in the Orin Pinmux document. 4. SDMEM pads with calibration pad have their drive strength controlled by the COMP pad and their overriding and programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad groups:
- SDMMC1_HV, SDMMC3_HV

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
5. SDMEMLV pads with calibration pad have their drive strength controlled by the COMP pad and their overriding and programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad group:
- QSPI
The typical drive impedance is 50 Ω for all the cases (1. through 5.) above. For all the pads that do not have corresponding calibration pads (i.e. 1. through 3. above) the drive strength must be programmed. The Power-On Reset default value in such cases typically works fine as the low interface speed and trace design does not need higher drive codes. For all the pads with the drive strength calibration feature and hardware drive strength calibration logic, their interface initialization needs to include such drive strength calibration. Software must follow the individual unit's interface initialization guides to ensure that drive strength calibration is taken care of one-time during power-up, or periodically by programming the drive codes to compensate for PVT variations.
#### 9.4.2.2 Pin-states and Default Pad Controls
Each of the Orin I/O's default pin-state is defined based on primary interface bus idle signal level requirements. Other than functional interface pins, GPIO pins default pin-state is pull-down. There are few exceptions like GPIOs used for button matrix require default pin-state to be pull-up to save external strong pull-ups and platform cost. Ultimately, the Power-On Reset field in the Orin Pinmux document captures this information per pin including all the exceptions based on platform consideration. Either during cold-boot or warm-boot power cycling, pin-states defaults to the Reset values captured in the POR field of the Orin Pinmux document. The following provides the connection to Reset types which has implications to pin-states of pad controls. Further, the following per pin fields as captured in the Orin Pinmux document are used to derive the pad control field Reset default value for each pin.
- POR – Pin state at Reset/Power-On
Z (Pin Tri-stated). PU/1 (Pin Pulled-Up). PD/0 (Pin Pulled-Down).
- Tristate_en
Passthrough (Pin active, i.e. drive value for output; transparent for input). Tristate (Pin Tri-stated).
- PU/PD
Pad control setting Pull-Up/Down is enabled for pad internal weak Pull-Down or Pull-Up. E_INPUT

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
Pad control setting to enable input receiver path which is irrespective of pad I/O direction. E_IO_HV
- Pad control setting to select for 3.3 V tolerance. Applicable for BDPGLPHVIN, open-drain
capable pads. E_LPDR
- Pad control setting to turn of drivers inside pad. Applicable for BDPGLP and BDPGLPHVIN
pad types.
- Table 9.47 Resets Impacting Pin-state
- Pins
- Reset connection
- All pads on I/O rails excluding VDDIO_PWR_CTL
- L2 warm Reset
- Pads on VDDIO_PWR_CTL
- L1 warm Reset
For the pins in VDDIO_PWR_CTL all the pad control registers, associated GPIO logic works on L1 warm Reset unlike all MPIO pads in various other groups.
##### 9.4.2.2.1 GPIO Pin-state, Pad Controls Managed by software
Apart from the pin-states, pad controls coming up as Reset defaults, following two cases where software manages the pin-state, pad control based on platform configuration. GPIO/special purpose pins which are part of I/O rails that are active during SC7 power state transitions shall be managed by software. GPIO/special purpose pins which are not part of Always-on I/O rails but require different pin- state vs the default pin-state are managed by software as per customer PinMux configuration in Customer PinMux.
#### 9.4.2.3 I/O Electrical Capabilities and Special Handling
The Orin I/Os are typically connected to various external devices powered by regulators which may be shared between Orin and other system components. Given this board-level design nature, and to satisfy the specifics of power-up, power-down, and transitioning in and out of SC7 (or equivalent) Low-Power states, the following system-level exposure scenarios are possible:
- Voltage Tolerance - I/Os can be exposed to the maximum tolerance voltage, when the I/O
power-rails are on.
- Fail-Safe - I/Os can be exposed to the maximum fail-safe voltage resulting in high-leakage
current without I/O damage, when the I/O power-rails are off. Given that the Fail-safe situation could result in high-leakage current, the leakage current calculation for reference is given as follows:

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Leakage current (estimated) = [External device voltage (1.8 or 3.3 V) – Orin OFF VDDP
voltage] / External device drive strength.
- Back-Drive - I/Os can be pulled HIGH without back-driving to off-power-rail, even when I/O
power-rails are off. This section provides an overview of the Orin I/O electrical capabilities with respect to these different system-level scenarios.
##### 9.4.2.3.1 Back-Drive Tolerant GPIO/LSIO Interfaces
Interfaces or pins that are expected to be driven by the external components with relevant pad power rails switched OFF require a special pad type with back-drive support. In Orin, BDPGLPHVIN_* & BILPRST_* pad types are built for such purposes. I/O with Back-Drive Capability implies that:
