# 9.6 Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
### 9.6.1 Overview
This chapter describes the Activity Monitor (ACTMON) block in the NVIDIA® Orin™ series System- on-Chip (SoC). Activity monitoring is a means to dynamically measure the utilization of various functional units in the system, to help drive software power management policies. For example,
- Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling may be used as a power management mechanism in some
applications. Software uses utilization information from various units to select an efficient voltage and frequency at which the unit should operate, while providing the required performance. Voltage change decisions are handled by this central software agent, whereas the unit frequency can be modulated in one of the following ways:
- No Activity Monitoring
The unit controls its own frequency.
- The device driver controls the unit frequency based on the calculated workload or hints
from a user-level driver.
- Activity Monitoring
- The central Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling (DVFS) agent controls the unit
frequency based on the utilization information from a Central ACTMON. In addition to tracking utilization, activity monitoring also provides hardware mechanism to report monitored activities through interrupts as opposed to polling. The hardware mechanisms include averaging, watermark detection, and histogram hardware, thus reducing software overhead in procuring and tracking the utilization data. The DVFS agent can directly access and use the ACTMONs to compute the target frequency (and consequently, voltage) of each unit for the next sampling interval. The ACTMON acts as a repository for activity indicators from various units, performs averaging of past samples, and indicates any abnormality in activity levels by sending an Interrupt to system software. The monitored units provide their idle/busy signals to the ACTMON block. In the discussion of ACTMON, the following terms are defined:
- Central ACTMON
A module on the AXI2APB bridge within the BPMP cluster. The Central ACTMON contains several ACTMON Instances for monitoring various system resources.
- Unit ACTMON
- The ACTMON inside Cortex-R5 clusters and Host Controller that counts the 1-bit activity
signal generated within the unit it resides in. The Unit ACTMON is responsible for watermark detection and Interrupts generation.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
(Refer to the Cortex-R5 cluster and Host Controller chapters for details of how the 1-bit activity signal is generated.)
- ACTMON Instance (Plug-in)
An instance of either Central ACTMON or Unit ACTMON. Two types of activities are monitored.
- Central Activities
- Memory activities
- Unit Activities
- Unit engine activities and memory bottlenecks
- - - - - -
- AON Cortex-R5
- BPMP Cortex-R5
- SCE Cortex-R5
- RCE Cortex-R5
- DCE Cortex-R5
- APE Cortex-A9
- Unit active signals
- - - - - -
- NVJPG, NVJPG1
- NVENC
- NVDEC
- VIC
- OFA
- PVA
- ACTMON counters are employed to capture activities, from which watermark Interrupts are
generated as result of sudden activity changes for appropriate system responses.
#### 9.6.1.1 Glossary
Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire Orin TRM is put in perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the ACTMON chapter.
- Term
- Definition
- ACTMON
- Activity Monitor
- AFBIF
- AXI-FBIF (AXI to Frame Buffer Interface)
- EWMA
- Exponentially Weighted Moving Average
- FBIF
- Frame Buffer Interface
- PM
- Performance Monitor (inside Cortex-R5 cluster and responsible for the Unit ACTMONs)

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- Term
- Definition
- Sampling Interval
A software-programmable time interval during which ACTMON hardware samples the selected activity indicator once to accumulate in its activity counter
#### 9.6.1.2 Relevant Chapters
- Address Map
- Always-On (AON) Cluster and SPE
- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Boot and Power Management Processor (BPMP)
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- Control BackBone (CBB)
- CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
- Interrupt Controllers
- Programmable Video Accelerator (PVA)
- Real-time Camera Engine (RCE)
- Safety Cluster Engine (SCE)
- Timers
- Video and Image Compositor (VIC)
#### 9.6.1.3 Features
Following is highlight of the ACTMON features. One 32-bit counter for each signaling device to accumulate activity counts. Running average computation for each counter over its past N values (N = 128). Watermark breach detection logic in each counter to detect any abrupt change in utilization. Activity report through Interrupts.
- Exponentially Weighted Moving Average (EWMA) for each central ACTMON counter to
provide the running average of its past K (programmable) values. DBB-related ACTMON, Central ACTMON outside of MSS, monitoring only DBB signals. PVA ACTMON, Unit ACTMON inside PVA module.
### 9.6.2 Functional Description
- The ACTMON hardware accumulates selected activity indicators over a programmable period
known as the sample period. The ACTMON uses the accumulated activity value in two ways:

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- First, it compares the accumulated activity count with two software-programmable
thresholds (one high and one low). If the monitored activity falls outside the thresholds, ACTMON hardware generates an Interrupt to send to the ACTMON driver.
- Secondly, ACTMON feeds the accumulated activity count to an IIR filter to compute an
- Exponentially Weighted Moving Average (EWMA) of the activity count to effectively measure
the "average load" of the monitored unit.
- The ACTMON hardware maintains a second pair of programmable thresholds to use as the upper
and lower boundary of the EWMA. If this moving average changes by the software-programmed amount (threshold), ACTMON hardware generates an Interrupt to send to the ACTMON driver.
**Figure 9.65 ACTMON Hardware Diagram**
- The diagram above illustrates the Orin ACTMON hardware. The ACTMON Wrapper is a software-
defined encompassment of multiple ACTMON modules/Instances (up to 8). Each ACTMON module in an ACTMON Wrapper with dedicated hardware and registers is assigned to monitor just one Activity indicator. The Global Control Registers for the sample period and Interrupt enable/status are common for all ACTMON Modules in an ACTMON Wrapper.
- Referring to the ACTMON Block Diagram below, the activity input is counted by the Activity
counter, ACTMON_XXX Monitor Counter register, that is reset at the end of each sample period. Software configuration allows Interrupt generation for the condition of counter overflow or at the end of each sample period. This cumulative counter, however, keeps running, even after a sample period ends, until it rolls over. Software has the option to generate an Interrupt when it rolls over for the first time (CARRY) and the second time (OVERFLOW).

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
At the end of a sample period, the sample count value is sent to a first order IIR filter to provide an Exponentially Weighted Moving Average statistics. Software can also be configured to generate an Interrupt whenever a set of programmable thresholds are breached. All the Interrupts are finally routed to one Interrupt line. Software reads the Interrupt status registers to know the cause of Interrupt. In addition, software has the option to mask (enable/ disable) Interrupts.
**Figure 9.66 ACTMON Block Diagram**
The figure below shows the high-level connectivity interface for the Central ACTMON unit in the
- BPMP cluster. (Refer to the BPMP chapter of this TRM for more details.)
- NV_ACTMON_MC is the ACTMON Wrapper encompasses seven ACTMON Instances. This along with
other glue logic like APB Slave and Reset Synchronizer constitutes the Central ACTMON. The Activity signals from Memory Controllers (MC) are all 16 bits wide (1 bit from each of the 16 MC channels) but each ACTMON Instance can only take a “1” bit activity signal as input. Thus, the NV_ACTMON_MC Wrapper needs to take care of activity aggregation (not shown in the diagram below). See Activity Aggregation below.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
**Figure 9.67 Central ACTMON Connection**
The table below summarizes the activities monitored in Orin.
- Table 9.61 Activity Monitors (ACTMONs)
- Module
- Central ACTMON Counter Description (Counter Width = 32 Bits)
- MC-ALL ACTMON
- Number of Memory Controller (MC) clock cycles when any (including CCPLEX) memory access
activity is detected. The MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- MC-CPU ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from CCPLEX is detected. MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- TSA_A ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_A is detected. MC toggles a signal to the ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- TSA_B ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_B is detected. MC toggles a signal to the ACTMON every 'W' cycles.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- Module
- Central ACTMON Counter Description (Counter Width = 32 Bits)
- TSA_C ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_C is detected. MC toggles a signal to the ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- DUAL-MCCIF-TSA
- ACTMON
- Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from DUAL-MCCIF-TSA clients is
detected. MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every ‘W’ cycles.
- TSA_RD ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_RD clients is detected. MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every ‘W’ cycles. The table above assumes that the following units either run at a fixed frequency or have their own frequency management based on a fixed workload, so they do not need ACTMON support.
- VI/CSI (fixed)
- Display (based on workload; no monitors needed)
- Host (fixed)
- ISP (based on workload)
- NVENC (based on input buffer)
- SEC (fixed frequency)
- USB3 – Falcon (based on workload)
#### 9.6.2.1 Location and Register Access
Unit-ACTMON registers are in the parent device’s address space. Hence, they should be accessed through the parent device’s MMIO path.
- Table 9.62 Unit ACTMON Registers
- Unit-ACTMON
- Location
- Register Access
- NVENC
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- NVDEC
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- NVJPG
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- NVJPG1
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- VIC
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- OFA
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- ADSP
- APE
- Through APE NIC's (ACONNECT) APB interface
- AON/SCE/BPMP/DCE/RCE
subsystem
- PM module within Cortex-R5
subsystem
- Through the PM module register space
- PVA
- ACTMON module inside the PVA
cluster
- PVA Internal control NoC

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
##### 9.6.2.1.1 Interrupts
- Table 9.63 Interrupt Interface
- Port Name
I/O
- Width
- Description
actmon_intr_set
- Out
- This signal tells the parent that ACTMON Interrupt need
to be set. It keeps asserted until software clears the status in ACTMON. (Parent refers to the unit inside which the ACTMON is instantiated.) Each Unit ACTMON has a single Interrupt status bit in the parent module which is set by this signal and cleared by software.
##### 9.6.2.1.2 Interrupt Handling
The Interrupts raised by all ACTMON Instances within the Wrapper are aggregated and sent to the parent device with one Interrupt status bit for the Wrapper. The parent device then sends the aggregated Interrupt to the software.
- Step 1: Host Controller Interrupt triggered
Step 2: Software reads Host Controller Interrupt status register and decides which activity monitor triggers Interrupt.
- Step 3: Software reads each ACTMON Interrupt status to decide which source triggered the
Interrupt.
- Step 4: Software clears the corresponding ACTMON and Host Controller Interrupt status bit
and takes necessary actions.
#### 9.6.2.2 Central ACTMON Module
The central ACTMON module comprises several central ACTMON Instances.
- Table 9.64 Clock Source for Activity Monitors
- ACTMON
- Refclk Source
- Frequency
- Central ACTMON
- Oscillator
## 19.2 MHz
- NV_timertick - The central ACTMON module uses the mS and µs ticks from NV_timers block
to keep track of sample periods.
##### 9.6.2.2.1 Accounting for Variable ACTMON and Device Clocks
The main purpose of Central Activity Monitors (Central ACTMONs) is to compute the utilization per unit time. This requires a constant time base that can only be provided by a constant reference clock (refClk).

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
Variation between refClk and device clock could lead to errors in counting. The following describes the issues relating to this clock variation and how they are solved: Accounting for different frequencies:
- Since the signaling devices may be operating at different frequencies, the ACTMON
counts need to be scaled appropriately to compute true utilization. For this, each counter is associated with a COUNT_WEIGHT value (denoted by 'W') which is the ratio of the device clock and the constant ACTMON reference clock (refClk). At the end of each sample period, the counter value is scaled by COUNT_WEIGHT to account for the frequency difference. 'W' is statically selected for each client such that it maps the client frequency range to a "reasonable" monitor output change. Accounting for pulse loss from high-frequency devices:
- Devices, such as MC, NVDEC, NVENC, and NVJPG, operate at much higher frequencies
than the ACTMON clock. Since ACTMON functions based on the idle/active pulses from these devices, a number of pulses are dropped as result of the slower ACTMON clock. To solve this problem, the device, instead of sending active/idle for each clock, toggles a signal for every 'N' active pulses of the device, where 'N' is the ratio of the device frequency to ACTMON frequency and needs to be programmed by software into the
- ACTMON and corresponding devices. Effectively, the idle/active pulses of these high-
frequency devices are reduced by a factor of 'N.' Using the 'N'-factor-reduced idle/active pulses, which is guaranteed to be slower than the ACTMON clock, no pulses are missed.
**Figure 9.68 Unit_ACTMON Handling High-Frequency Activity Signals**

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
#### 9.6.2.3 Handling Overflow
Saturation of the counter leads to counter overflow and results in an Interrupt to the system software. The software is expected to clear the counter upon completion of servicing the Interrupt for continual use.
#### 9.6.2.4 Features to Aid DVFS
The Central ACTMON module provides the following hardware support for DVFS:
- Watermark Generation
- Each counter in the ACTMON unit is associated with an upper and lower watermark
register to track any sudden abnormalities in utilization, e.g., rapidly varying workloads. A programmable number of watermark breaches is used to trigger the generation of an Interrupt to system software.
- Exponentially Weighted Moving Average (EWMA)
- An EWMA is maintained for each Central ACTMON counter to keep a running average of
the past 'K' (programmable) counter values. It is implemented as a 1st-order IIR filter using the following formula:
- At = K * Ct + (1 - K) * At-1, where
- At is the running average,
K = 2-( K_VAL+1) (default = 2-7), Ct is the current count value. Upper and lower watermarks are also provided for this EWMA.
- Cumulative Counter
- Each Central ACTMON has a cumulative counter register to keep track of the activity
across sample periods. This counter register is updated continuously, not cleared/reset at sample period boundaries. The count in this cumulative counter register can be polled by the software (mostly BPMP firmware) at frequent intervals (< 10 mS granularity) to understand the activity trends.
- Each ACTMON Instance also has a cumulative counter register to store the cumulative
activity count value. This counter register is incremented at each active cycle of the activity signal to accumulate the activity continuously through sample periods, not cleared/reset at sample boundaries. This counter register is NOT compared against any thresholds to generate any Interrupts.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- Each ACTMON has a counter that accumulates the activity signal over a programmable
sample period. At the end of the sample period, the counter value is latched into a register.
- At any instant, software reads this register to receive the activity count for the most
recently completed sample period.
#### 9.6.2.5 Unit ACTMONs for Multimedia Engines (NVJPG, NVENC, NVENC1,
- NVDEC, NVDEC1, and VIC)
In Orin, two Unit ACTMONs, one for Engine Activity and the other for Memory Bottlenecks, are assigned for each multimedia engine (NVJPG, NVENC, NVDEC, VIC) to allow system software to concurrently study engine load and memory bottlenecks. Orin system software has the ability to aggregate signals inside these multimedia modules before exporting to Unit ACTMON.
**Figure 9.69 Multimedia Engine ACTMON**
The four signals on the right side of the diagram above are described below: Engine_Active goes HIGH for the ACTIVE cycle, i.e., when any of the subunits of the engine is active.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- Stalled goes HIGH when the engine is unable to issue a request to memory, i.e., a STALLED
cycle.
- Delay goes HIGH when the engine is waiting for a read-response or write-acknowledge from
memory. Starved goes HIGH when engine’s internal input memory buffers are empty. The default configuration can be:
- Engine Active = (Engine_active & !Starved)
- Memory Bottleneck = (Engine_active & Starved)
- At Power On Reset (POR)
1.
- The unit exports the two signals: Engine Active and Memory Bottleneck. This requires that
the AFBIF infrastructure to support the Boolean logic aggregation then export the two signals to the Host Controller, where the two ACTMON Instances are located.
- VIC provides the Starved signal. NVJPG, NVENC, and NVDEC units do not generate the
Starved signal. 2.
#### 9.6.2.6 Unit ACTMON for BPMP/SCE/RCE/AON Cortex-R5 Processor
One Unit ACTMON is instantiated for each of the Cortex-R5 processors in BPMP, SCE, RCE, and AON cluster. These Unit ACTMONs are intended to aid software with load-based frequency scaling of the processor clock. It can also count selected signals from the Cortex-R5 Event Bus to identify Memory-Mapped Read and Write (MMIO) latency limits. To enable common design and verification, these Unit ACTMONs are instantiated as part of the common Performance Monitor (PM) module inside the individual Cortex-R5 cluster. The active signal for these Unit ACTMONs can be sourced from the following:
- WFEPIPESTOPPED
- WFIPIPESTOPPED
- CLKSTOPPED
- Selected signals from the Cortex-R5’s Event Bus
For details of these signals and how they can be combined to generate the Activity signal for the Unit ACTMON, see the BPMP chapter of this TRM. The Activity signal is accumulated using a down-counter and when it reaches zero, the signal to the Unit ACTMON is toggled. The Unit ACTMON runs on the refClk just like the Central ACTMONs and we expect it to get reset when the PM module (within which it sits) gets reset.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
The Unit ACTMON's Interrupt is sent to PM module which adds an additional Interrupt line for the ACTMON.
#### 9.6.2.7 Activity Aggregation
The memory controller has 16 N-Bit signals to ACTMON (where N = 16 = number of channels) and the ACTMON logic combines them to update the counter as follows: For each of the MC_CPU, MC_ALL, DBB NoC related ACTMON Instances @ refClk: if (neither signal toggles)
- No change
else if (any 1 signal toggles)
- Increment by W
else if (any 2 signals toggle)
- Increment by 2*W
else if (any 3 signals toggle)
- Increment by 3*W
else if (any 4 signals toggle)
- Increment by 4*W
else if (any 5 signals toggle)
- Increment by 5*W
else if (any 6 signals toggle)
- Increment by 6*W
else if (any 7 signals toggle)
- Increment by 7*W
else if (any 8 signals toggle)
- Increment by 8*W
else if (any 9 signals toggle)
- Increment by 9*W
else if (any 10 signals toggle)
- Increment by 10*W
else if (any 11 signals toggle)
- Increment by 11*W
else if (any 12 signals toggle)
- Increment by 12*W
else if (any 13 signals toggle)
- Increment by 13*W
else if (any 14 signals toggle)
- Increment by 14*W
else if (any 15 signals toggle)
- Increment by 15*W
else if (any 16 signals toggle)
- Increment by 16*W
Where W is the weight (VAL bits) programmed in the COUNT_WEIGHT register.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
### 9.6.3 Programming Guidelines
This section provides an overview of the ACTMON register fields.
- Central ACTMON module contains a set of global registers which are common to all central
ACTMON Instances and some registers which are replicated for each ACTMON. The following are global registers, common to all central activity monitors.
- ACTMON Global Control
- ACTMON Global Interrupt Enable
- ACTMON Global Interrupt Status
The registers marked by XXX are replicated for each central ACTMON.
#### 9.6.3.1 Global Registers
ACTMONs only support 32-bit accesses. Byte accesses are not supported. Refer to ACTMON Registers for detailed descriptions of the global registers.
- ACTMON Global Control Register (ACTMON_MCGLB_CTRL_0)
- If the programmed value of SAMPLE_PERIOD is N,
the sample period duration would be (N+1) units (in mS/sample_tick or µs/sample_tick). This is the sample period for all ACTMON Instances within the central ACTMON module.
- If the SOURCE is selected as TICK, i.e., ACTMON reference clock,
sample period = (N+1) * (256 or 65356 depending on SAMPLE_TICK field) * unit, where unit
- ACTMON reference clock period.
- ACTMON Global Interrupt Enable Register (ACTMON_MC_GLB_INT_EN_0)
- For each Interrupt Enable bit: 1 for each ACTMON Instance (Instance 0 - 7) in the
ACTMON Wrapper.
- ACTMON Global Interrupt Status Register (ACTMON_MC_GLB_INT_STATUS_0)
- For each Interrupt Status bit: 1 for each ACTMON Instance (Instance 0 - 7) in the
ACTMON Wrapper.
#### 9.6.3.2 Central ACTMON Instance Registers
- The XXX in the ACTMON Instance register names is any of the ACTMON module names, i.e.,
MC_CPU, MC_ALL, TSA_A, TSA_B, TSA_C, DUAL_MCCIF_TSA, and TSA_RD_AVG_COUNT.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- The upper and lower watermarks of instantaneous and average count can be enabled
simultaneously by software.
- ACTMON_XXX Control Register (ACTMON_XXX_CTRL_0)
- ACTMON_XXX Interrupt Enable Register (ACTMON_XXX_INTR_ENABLE_0)
- Software needs to ensure that whenever the ACTMON is in the disabled mode, all the
corresponding Interrupt enables are set to disabled mode as well. In addition, software must ensure that the Interrupt status register is cleared before the ACTMON is re-enabled from a disabled state.
- ACTMON_XXX Interrupt Status Register (ACTMON_XXX_INTR_STATUS_0)
- ACTMON_XXX Upper Watermark Register (ACTMON_XXX_UPPER_WMARK_0)
This software-programmed register is the upper watermark for the ACTMON count value.
- ACTMON_XXX Lower Watermark Register (ACTMON_XXX_LOWER_WMARK_0)
This software-programmed register is the lower watermark for the ACTMON count value.
- ACTMON_XXX Average Upper Watermark Register (ACTMON_XXX_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0)
This software-programmed register is the upper watermark for the ACTMON EWMA value.
- ACTMON_XXX Average Lower Watermark Register (ACTMON_XXX_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0)
This software-programmed register is the lower watermark for the ACTMON EWMA value.
- ACTMON_XXX Init Average Value Register (ACTMON_XXX_INIT_AVG_0)
- This software-programmed register is the initial value of EWMA, corresponding to A0 in
the IIR filter formula.
- ACTMON_XXX Moving Average Register (ACTMON_XXX_AVG_COUNT_0)
- This is the EWMA count value. This is updated at end of sample period based on IIR filter
formula.
- ACTMON_XXX Monitor Counter (ACTMON_XXX_COUNT_0)
This is the ACTMON counter value. Note that this register is not updated at each clock. There is a separate counter which increments for each cycle the activity signal is ACTIVE.
- At end of a sample period, the value of this counter is scaled by the COUNT_WEIGHT and
then updated into this register. If read in middle of a sample window, the readback value is the old sample’s monitor value.
- ACTMON_XXX Count Weight Register (ACTMON_XXX_COUNT_WEIGHT_0)
- This register holds the COUNT_WEIGHT. The activity accumulated over the past sample
period is scaled by this weight and then updated into the Monitor Counter register.
- ACTMON_XXX Cumulative Count Register (ACTMON_XXX_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0)

- ACTMON Registers
This register contains the cumulative counter value.
### 9.6.4 ACTMON Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers. The Base Addresses of the registers related to the Activity Monitor (ACTMON) are specified in the Address Map section of the Orin TRM.
- UNIT_ACTMON_GLB_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,xxxx,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 SAMPLE_TICK: 0 = TICK_256 1 = TICK_65536 9:8 0x0 SOURCE: 0 = MSEC 1 = USEC 2 = TICK 7:0 0x0
- SAMPLE_PERIOD
- UNIT_ACTMON_GLB_INT_EN_0
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 EN: 1 = Instance0 2 = Instance1 4 = Instance2 8 = Instance3 16 = Instance4 32 = Instance5 64 = Instance6 128 = Instance7

- ACTMON Registers
- UNIT_ACTMON_GLB_INT_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 INTR: 1 = Instance0 2 = Instance1 4 = Instance2 8 = Instance3 16 = Instance4 32 = Instance5 64 = Instance6 128 = Instance7
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x80
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x84
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x88
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N

- ACTMON Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x8c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x90
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x94
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x98
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x9c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0xa0
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0xa4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0xa8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- ACTMON Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL
- UNIT_ACTMON_LOCAL_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0xac
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_GLB_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,xxxx,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 SAMPLE_TICK: 0 = TICK_256 1 = TICK_65536 9:8 0x0 SOURCE: 0 = MSEC 1 = USEC 2 = TICK 7:0 0x0
- SAMPLE_PERIOD
- ACTMON_MC_GLB_INT_EN_0
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- ACTMON Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 EN: 1 = Instance0 2 = Instance1 4 = Instance2 8 = Instance3 16 = Instance4 32 = Instance5 64 = Instance6 128 = Instance7
- ACTMON_MC_GLB_INT_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 INTR: 1 = Instance0 2 = Instance1 4 = Instance2 8 = Instance3 16 = Instance4 32 = Instance5 64 = Instance6 128 = Instance7
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x80
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x84
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x88
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x8c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x90
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x94
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- ACTMON Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x98
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x9c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0xa0
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0xa4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0xa8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_CPU_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0xac
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x100
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N

- ACTMON Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x104
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x108
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x10c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x110
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0

- ACTMON Registers
- Offset: 0x114
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x118
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x11c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x120
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x124
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0x128
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL
- ACTMON_MC_ALL_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x12c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_TSA_A_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x180
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x184
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- ACTMON_TSA_A_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x188
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- ACTMON_TSA_A_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x18c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x190
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_TSA_A_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x194
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x198
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x19c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x1a0
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N

- ACTMON Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x1a4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0x1a8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_A_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x1ac
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_TSA_B_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x200
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x204
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- ACTMON_TSA_B_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x208
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- ACTMON_TSA_B_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x20c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x210
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x214
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x218
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x21c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_TSA_B_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x220
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x224
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0x228
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_B_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x22c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- ACTMON Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x280
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x284
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- ACTMON_TSA_C_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x288
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- ACTMON_TSA_C_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x28c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x290
- Read/Write: R/W

- ACTMON Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x294
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x298
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x29c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x2a0
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x2a4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_C_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0x2a8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_TSA_C_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x2ac
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x300
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x304
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- ACTMON Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x308
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x30c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x310
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x314
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x318
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x31c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N

- ACTMON Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x320
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x324
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0x328
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_DUAL_MCCIF_TSA_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x32c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_CTRL_0
- Offset: 0x380
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00001800 (0b00x0,00xx,0000,0xxx,xx01,10xx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ACTMON_ENB: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ENB_CUMULATIVE: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 28:26 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_ABOVE_WMARK_NUM
23:21 0x0
- CONSECUTIVE_BELOW_WMARK_NUM
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_CARRY
0x0
- CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW
0x0 ENB_PERIODIC: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 12:10 0x6 K_VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_INTR_ENABLE_0
- Offset: 0x384
- Read/Write: R/W

- ACTMON Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 AT_END_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_INTR_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x388
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)

- ACTMON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 CONSECUTIVE_UPPER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CONSECUTIVE_LOWER_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AVG_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 AT_END: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_CARRY: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 CUMULATIVE_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 COUNTER_OVERFLOW: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_ABOVE_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR 0x0 BT_BELOW_WMARK: 0 = NOINTR 1 = INTR
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x38c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL

- ACTMON Registers
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x390
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_AVG_UPPER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x394
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_AVG_LOWER_WMARK_0
- Offset: 0x398
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_INIT_AVG_0
- Offset: 0x39c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N

- ACTMON Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x3a0
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_AVG_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x3a4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_COUNT_WEIGHT_0
- Offset: 0x3a8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x1
- VAL

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
- ACTMON_TSA_RD_CUMULATIVE_COUNT_0
- Offset: 0x3ac
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- VAL
