# 10.15 Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
### 10.15.1 Overview
The Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (also called Quad SPI or QSPI) controller is a multi-bit serial communications link to compatible flash memory devices. The QSPI controller uses the Serial (SoC) embeds two QSPI controllers, each of which works independently. In the context of the I/O pins, these two QSPI controllers are referred to as QSPI0 and QSPI1.
#### 10.15.1.1 Standard and Compatibility
- The Synchronous Serial Communication Interface, SPI (Serial Peripheral Interface bus)
without the Slave Mode.
- Compatible with industry-standard flash devices from Cypress®/Spansion®, Micron®, and
Macronix®.

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
#### 10.15.1.2 Glossary
- Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the Quad Serial Peripheral Interface chapter.
- Term
- Definition
- Word
A 32-bit data in the Tx or Rx FIFO.
- Packet
Programmable data bit length that is being transferred. A typical packet size may be 8, 16, or 32 in packed/unpacked mode
- Tx
- QSPI as sender and flash is receiver
- Rx
- QSPI as receiver and flash is sender
#### 10.15.1.3 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Address Map
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA)
- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
#### 10.15.1.4 Features
- Master Mode Operation
- SDR and DDR mode
- Clock Polarity and Phase (Mode 0)
- Independent Rx and Tx FIFO
- FIFO Size: 64 x 32 bits for PIO mode
- Byte-aligned and Packet-based (Packet Size = 8, 16, 32 bits) Packed and Unpacked Mode
- Packed Mode's minimum transfer size: 32 bits (one FIFO word)
- Unpacked Mode always used for transfer sizes less than 32 bits
- PIO or DMA Mode
- Single (x1) Mode, Dual (x2) Mode, Quad (x4) SDR and DDR Mode
Configurable bit and byte endianness. Least Significant Bit of Least Significant Byte (Endianness) Transmitted First and Received First as per NOR flash datasheet.
- Only one Slave Support with Programmable Polarity for Chip Select (CS), Hardware/Software
- Chip Select Control
- DMA Support

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
- Support for Combined Sequences Required for WRITE or READ Transactions to reduce CPU
overhead.
- Hardware Calibration Support in QSPI Controller
### 10.15.2 Functional Description
The QSPI Controller is a Master on the QSPI bus. It has independent Tx and Rx FIFOs of 64 x 32 bits each for PIO mode and a FIFO of 40 x 64 bits for DMA mode. Because QSPI has only a half-duplex use-case, a single FIFO is used for Transmit (Tx) and Receive (Rx) in DMA mode. Software can program the controller to generate transactions of the required packet length on the QSPI bus in either direction. Software can manually read/write to the FIFOs in PIO mode. PIO mode can also use GPC_DMA to read and write from the independent transmit/receive FIFOs as required. For DMA mode, the native DMA engine is used to read and write from the FIFO to memory as required. At the end of each transaction, an interrupt may be generated if the interrupt mask is cleared. Software uses transmit or receive operations in combination with chip select (CS) control to generate commands on the QSPI bus. There are two system instances of QSPI in the SoC. These two instances QSPI0/1 are used as the primary boot from NOR flash.
#### 10.15.2.1 Flash Devices Configurations
The types of devices and their configurations in the following diagrams are possible with the QSPI controllers. Exact part selection is subject to platform design choices, cost, performance, and overall platform considerations.
**Figure 10.156 Single QSPI controller interfacing discrete package of x4 device**

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
**Figure 10.157 Two QSPI controllers driving one discrete package consisting of 2 x4 device**

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
**Figure 10.158 Two QSPI controllers driving two discrete packages each consisting of x4 device**
#### 10.15.2.2 Dual QSPI Bus Configuration
- Two QSPI controller instances are available to speed up boot payload and meet Automotive
platform boot KPIs. Each of the controller drives a single x4 port independently, and together effectively results in 2x bandwidth (240 MB/s due to reduced POR frequency). Partitioned payloads shall be flashed in two discrete x4 QSPI flashes or two x4 QSPI flashes on a single die.
#### 10.15.2.3 System Configuration
Platform requirements and usage flow models: QSPI flash can be used as the primary boot device and supports 120 MHz DDR configuration. Hardware drive strength calibration is used to compensate for variations at high-speed (>80 MHz DDR) operation. QSPI usage flow:
- Power on

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
- Drive strength calibration (Hardware)
- Trimmer tuning (Software)
- Load Payload for system boot (multiple phases of boot flow)
- Write accesses for minor updates
- Re-loading of payload when required
#### 10.15.2.4 Drive Strength Programming
##### 10.15.2.4.1 Drive Strength Programming Options
The QSPI interface requires the I/O drivers to have constant impedance for high-speed interface operations. Different options are possible to program drive up/down codes of QSPI interfaces. Required settings for different options and source of applied code details summarized in below table. The QSPI controller supports hardware managed interface drive strength calibration. Auto- Drive strength calibration sequence covered in programming section maps to option 3. BDSDMEMLVCOMP pad is used to calibrate driver impedance and provide the drive code to data/ control (BDSDMEMLV) pads. The data/control and comp pads for the QSPI interface only support the 1.8V I/O voltage.
- Table 10.116 Drive Strength Programming Options
- Drive Up/Dn Codes to Apply to Data/Control Pads
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_OV
- ERRIDE
- Optio
n
- DRV_TY
- PE
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_E
- NABLE
0x11 0 (default) 0 (default)
- Drive Up Code: 0xa
- Drive Dn Code: 0xa
- This option fixes the drive code (internal default drive
strength) applied to the pads and is meant for platforms that conform to the Design Guidelines. 0x01 0 (default) 0 (default) Drive Up Code: (QSPI_QSPI_COMP_CONTROL_0.
- COMP_PAD_DRVUP_OVR)
Drive Dn Code: (QSPI_QSPI_COMP_CONTROL_0.
- COMP_PAD_DRVDN_OVR)
- This option fixes the drive code applied by software
programming. Select this option when the platform requires qualification work to come up with drive codes.

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
- Drive Up/Dn Codes to Apply to Data/Control Pads
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_OV
- ERRIDE
- Optio
n
- DRV_TY
- PE
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_E
- NABLE
0x01 0 (default)
- Drive Up Code: (Hardware auto-drive calibration
strength + (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PU_OFFSET))
- Drive Dn Code: (Hardware auto-drive calibration
strength + (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PD_OFFSET))
- This option allows the drive code to be applied based
on the hardware drive strength calibration as opposed to applying fixed drive codes.
- Select this option when Option 1 does not work
properly, or the static drive code fails such that periodic adjustment of the drive codes is needed to compensate for temperature changes. 0x01 Drive Up Code: (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PU_OFFSET) Drive Dn Code: (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PD_OFFSET)
- This option fixes the drive code applied by software
programming. It is an alternative to Option 2.
#### 10.15.2.5 Safety Mechanisms
##### 10.15.2.5.1 Functional Errors
The error conditions described earlier are functional errors that may be used as diagnostic measures to realize a system-level safety mechanism. These functional errors are classified as Non-Fatal errors and therefore do not have hardware channeling to the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM) block. In contrast, these functional error interrupts when enabled and routed to the Legacy
- Interrupt Controller (LIC) may be managed by the safety management software to realize the
safety mechanism desired. Each of the QSPI controllers has the following Interrupt masks to select/enable the corresponding functional errors to trigger such interrupts.
- Table 10.117 QSPI Functional Errors
- Functional Error
- Error Description
- Interrupt Mask Setting to Enable Interrupt
- Tx FIFO Overflow
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.TX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK = 0)
- Rx FIFO Overflow
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.RX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK = 0)
- Tx FIFO Underrun
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.TX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK = 0)
- Rx FIFO Underrun
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.RX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK = 0)

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
##### 10.15.2.5.2 Back Channel
In the back channel, data payload sent to the Flash device by the QSPI controller can benefit from a software-based CRC checksum. Such system-level software mechanisms can be employed to detect errors and recover from the detected errors using added redundancy or re-transmission to meet the safety requirements. Since the APB register configuration does not support Parity checking, errors within a QSPI controller are expected to manifest themselves as I/O bus errors, which can be detected and recovered using the same system-level software-based safety mechanism.
### 10.15.3 Programming Guidelines
This section describes the programming model of the QSPI Flash controller.
#### 10.15.3.1 Clock Initialization and Control
The following clock programming sequence is to be used for clock initialization or any other phases of boot or re-initialization of QSPI interfaces depending on system use cases. The PLL source should be selected based on the config. The following sequence is an example for PLLC4. Enable PLL source PLLC4 by writing to CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_PLLC4_MISC1_0.
- Assert QSPI controller reset by writing CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_QSPI0/1_SET_0 to
0x1.
- Enable clock to the device by configuring
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_QSPI0/1_SET_0. CLK_ENB_QSPI0/1 to 0x1.
- Change the clock divisor, clock source to the clock switch (single register write)
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_QSPI_0/1_0.QSPI_CLK_SRC to appropriate PLL
source, and divisor settings based on clock sharing policy guidelines. Wait 2µs to make sure clock source/divider has changed. De-assert device's reset CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_QSPI0/1_CLR_0. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
#### 10.15.3.2 Clock Programming for Various QSPI Modes
- Program the clock source and clock divider in
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_QSPI0/1_0. 1. For SDR 166 MHz, clock divider must be programmed to generate 166 MHz output. For DDR 120 MHz, clock divider must be programmed to generate 240 MHz output. a. b.
- Set QSPI_CLK_DIV2_SEL to 1 in the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_QSPI0/1_0
for DDR mode.
- Set QSPI_CLK_DIV2_SEL to 0 in the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_QSPI0/1_0
for SDR mode. i. ii.

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
#### 10.15.3.3 PLL Clocking Policy
- PLLC4 is the preferred clock source option; PLLC, PLLC2, and PLLC3 are added as QSPI clock
sources.
#### 10.15.3.4 QSPI Controller Configuration
The following programming sequence is for configuring the controller irrespective of PIO/DMA mode. The sequence of steps is same for Command, Address, or Data bytes to flash. If INTERFACE_WIDTH changes between command, address and data, multiple iterations are required. Ensure that QSPI_COMMAND_0.PIO and QSPI_DMA_CTL_0.DMA_EN fields are in reset state.
- Program QSPI_COMMAND_0 register based on the flash device and interface modes, and
packet selection: 1. 2.
- PIO = 0x0
M_S = 0x1
- MODE = 0x0 (for Mode0 selection)
- CS_SEL = 0x0
- CS_POL_INACTIVE = 0x1
CS_SW_HW: a. b. c. d. e. f.
- Software control of chip-select, required settings: CS_SW_HW = 0x1, CS_SW_VAL = 0x0
- Hardware control of chip-select, CS_SW_HW = 0x0, ignore CS_SW_VAL = 0x1
i. ii.
- IDLE_SDA = default value (This is only for debug purpose. Not to be touched in functional
mode.)
- Data formatting modes selection if needed to re-arrange the data received from flash in
terms of LSB/MSB or endianness: g. h.
- En_LE_Bit
- En_LE_Byte
- PACKED setting based on data mode selection
a. b. c. SDR_DDR_SEL = 0x0 for SDR mode and 0x1 for DDR mode.
- INTERFACE_WIDTH = 0x0/0x1/0x2 depending on width of I/O bus. Note that CMD/ADDR
width may be different from data width even for Quad flashes. Different INTERFACE_WIDTHs shall be accomplished with multiple PIO transfers in such cases. BIT_LENGTH = depending on packet size selection. Tx_En or Rx_En depending on write or read transfer. ii. iii. iv. v.
- Program num_of_dummy_cycles in QSPI_MISC_0 register (required for fast read, dual/quad
read operation) while setting up a Tx transfer (for CMD and ADDR) based on device requirement. 3.

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
- Program QSPI_COMMAND2_0 (Rx trimmer tap settings) if required to be changed from
default values as recommended by Silicon Characterization.
- Program QSPI_TIMING_REG1_0/QSPI_TIMING_REG2_0/QSPI_TIMING3_0 based on flash
device timing settings. 4. 5.
- For hardware-based chip select selection only, setup and hold timing settings in CS
Timing register are relevant. i. Clear QSPI_INTR_MASK_0 register bit fields to enable required interrupt. 6.
#### 10.15.3.5 PIO Data Transfer Using CPU
The following sequence is for PIO mode of data transfer. The sequence of steps is the same for
- Command, or Address or Data bytes to flash. If INTERFACE_WIDTH changes between command,
address, and data, then multiple iterations are required. Follow the steps outlined above for QSPI Controller Configuration. Wait for 1 µs delay so that all configuration bits are settled. Write data to the Tx FIFO for Tx transfer. Enable PIO mode transfer by writing `1’ to PIO bit in QSPI_COMMAND_0 register. Wait for RDY interrupt/poll for RDY status in QSPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0.
- Program QSPI_COMMAND_0 register CS_SW_VAL=0x1 to de-active the chip select for
software driven chip select. Read the received data in the Rx FIFO for Rx transfer. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
#### 10.15.3.6 DMA Data Transfer
The following sequence is for DMA mode of data transfer using the QSPI internal DMA engine. In this mode, the QSPI controller transmits or receives the number of packets as indicated by the field DMA_BLOCK_SIZE in QSPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0 register from/to the memory. The memory address is configurable in the controller. Follow the steps outlined in QSPI Controller Configuration. Program DMA-related registers: 1. 2.
- QSPI_AXI_CTL_0 register
a. MC_WPROT/MC_RPROT based on the access requirement to secure/non-secure memory. Note that this register can only be modified by TrustZone-OS. i.
- QSPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0 register
b.
- DMA_BLOCK_SIZE with required packet transfer length. Number of data bytes =
(DMA_BLOCK_SIZE_N + 1) X No. of bytes as per BIT_LENGTH and packed selection. i.
- QSPI_DMA_MEM_ADDRESS_0 – lower 32 bits of memory address
- QSPI_DMA_HI_ADDRESS_0 – higher 8 bits of memory address
c. d. Wait for 1 µs delay so that all configuration bits are settled. Enable the transfer by writing `1’ to DMA_EN bit in QSPI_DMA_CTL_0 register. 3. 4.

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
5. Wait for RDY interrupt/poll for RDY status in QSPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0.
#### 10.15.3.7 Programming Trimmers
- There are two programmable trimmers in QSPI: QSPI-Tx trimmer and QSPI-Rx trimmer. These
trimmers are used only when QSPI is in Master Mode. The QSPI-Tx Trimmer is used in Transmit mode to adjust/center the outgoing clock with outgoing data. The QSPI-Rx trimmer is used in Receive mode to delay the loopback clock to center align the Receive data to meet setup/hold and data valid requirements. The QSPI-Tx Trimmer can be programmed to meet timing requirements between SCK and IO[3:0]. Program Tx_Clk_TAP_DELAY, probe SCK and IO[3:0], and measure the setup/hold time.
##### 10.15.3.7.1 Rx Trimmer Tuning Sequence
The QSPI controller does not implement any auto-tuning hardware procedure to find the optimum value of Rx_Clk_TAP_DELAY settings for clock sampling adjustment. However, it is possible to accomplish the same with software managed tuning sequence. Software sends commands, reads the tuning pattern, logs the pass/fail criterion, changes the trimmer setting, post-process the results to identify passing windows and finally to arrive at the required Rx_Clk_TAP_DELAY settings. Some QSPI flash vendors support a DLP mechanism, where in flash outputs data pattern during dummy cycle phase. Since the controller generates dummy cycles during Transmit phase, it will not be able to sample DLP data during the dummy_cycle phase. Because the QSPI controller does not sample the DLP pattern in hardware, it will not use that method. However, software can sample the DLP pattern by the following tuning scheme. 1. Programming dummy_cycle is not really required. a.
- That means leave NUM_OF_DUMMY_CLK_CYCLES field of the QSPI_MISC_0 register to its
default value (0x0). 2. 3. Program/Increment the RX_CLK_TAP_DELAY setting. Set up receive transfer (length of transfer in num_of_dummy_cycle + some_extra_bytes): a.
- For example, if in x4 mode four dummy cycles are required, software may setup a normal
receive transfer of 8 bytes (4 bytes for dummy cycles + 4 bytes of extra bytes). Software needs to program DMA_BLOCK_SIZE to seven packets with BIT_LENGTH=0x7 selection (which means 8 bytes). 4. 5. 6. Extract DLP data and compare with expected data pattern (vendor documentation). Log the pass/fail criterion. Repeat steps 2-5 until entire RX_CLK_TAP_DELAY possible range is completed. a.
- RX_CLK_TAP_DELAY range is fine-tuned based on Si char results to optimize the DLP
tuning time.

- QSPI Registers
7.
- Post-process the pass/fail information to identify largest passing window. If there are
multiple passing windows, choose the lower trimmer range. From passing windows, identify the largest passing window.
- Fix the RX_CLK_TAP_DELAY to the passing window middle point, which is the best margin
point for setup/hold time. 8. a.
- Selection from passing window shall be based on Si char. There is no guarantee that middle
point is the “safe margin” point. Once tuning is complete, software can disable the DLP by writing 0x00 in VDLP register (using WVDLR 4Ah cmd). Normal Tx/Rx transfers to be initiated from there on.
#### 10.15.3.8 Auto-Drive Strength Calibration Sequence
Enable auto-calibration. 1.
- Auto calibration
a.
- Set QSPI_COMP_PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD = 1 in QSPI_QSPI_COMP_CONTROL_0
register. Wait for 1us after QSPI_COMP_PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD is enabled.
- Set AUTO_CAL_START and AUTO_CAL_ENABLE to 1 in QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0
register. Wait for 1µs. Wait for AUTO_CAL_ACTIVE in QSPI_AUTO_CAL_STATUS_0 register to become 0.
- Clear the QSPI_COMP_PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD setting to `0’ in
QSPI_QSPI_COMP_CONTROL_0 register to save power. b. c. d. e. f. i.
- Software should not clear AUTO_CAL_ENABLE in the QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0
register after calibration. Set to 1 to use calibration codes generated by calibration controller.
- If periodic calibration is required, wait for minimum 100ms and re-run calibration when
the QSPI I/F is IDLE. ii.
### 10.15.4 QSPI Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers. There are two sets of the QSPI controller registers, one for each QSPI controller in the Orin SoC. The register descriptions below give the offset of each register within the QSPI controller's address range. The Base Addresses of the registers in these two QSPI controllers are specified in the Address Map section of the Orin TRM.
- QSPI_COMMAND_0

- QSPI Registers
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x4050001f (0b0100,00xx,x101,0000,0xx0,0x00,0x01,1111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 PIO:
- Program 1 after all the configuration fields are programmed to start the
transfer. Hardware clears this bit automatically after the transfer is done.
- Clearing of the bit by Software will stop the Shifter and latch the partial
data into FIFO. 0 = STOP 1 = PIO 0x1 M_S: 1 = Master Mode (internal Clock) 0 = RSVD 0 = RSVD 1 = MASTER 29:28 0x0 MODE: 11 = Mode3 10 = RSVD 01 = RSVD 00 = Mode0 (def); Only Master Mode-0 is supported. 0 = Mode0 1 = RSVD1 2 = RSVD2 3 = RSVD3 27:26 0x0 CS_SEL: 11 = RSVD 10 = RSVD 01 = RSVD 00 = chip select0 (def) 0 = CS0 1 = RSVD1 2 = RSVD2 3 = RSVD3 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE0:
- In Master Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value which is
connected to CS0 needs to be programmed 1 = CS0 Inactive value of external device is high 0 = CS0 Inactive value of external device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x0 CS_SW_HW: Software control of CS signal in Master Mode. 1 = CS controlled by software 0 = CS controlled by hardware 0 = HARDWARE 1 = SOFTWARE 0x1 CS_SW_VAL:
- When CS is controlled by Software this value is driven onto the selected CS
line. 1 = CS is high 0 = CS is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
19:18 0x0 IDLE_SDA: 11 = Pull High 10 = Pull Low 01 = Driven High 00 = Driven Low 0 = DRIVE_LOW 1 = DRIVE_HIGH 2 = PULL_LOW 3 = PULL_HIGH 0x0 BIDIR: 1 = RSVD 0 = Normal mode 0 = NORMAL 1 = RSVD 0x0 En_LE_Bit: 1 = Enable Little Endian Bit 0 = Disable Little Endian Bit 0 = LAST 1 = FIRST 0x0 En_LE_Byte: 1 = Enable Little Endian Byte 0 = Disable Little Endian Byte 0 = LAST 1 = FIRST 0x0 Rx_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 Tx_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SDR_DDR_SEL: Selects between SDR (Single data rate) and DDR (Double data rate) mode. 0 = SDR 1 = DDR 0 = SDR 1 = DDR 8:7 0x0 INTERFACE_WIDTH: 00 = Single bit mode (x1 mode) 01 = Dual mode (x2 mode) 10 = Quad mode (x4 mode) 11 = RSVD 0 = SINGLE 1 = DUAL 2 = QUAD 0x0 PACKED: Packed mode enable bit. 1 = Packed mode is enabled. This is only valid if BIT_LENGTH in COMMAND register is set to 7, 15 or 31.
- When enabled, all 32-bits of data in the FIFO contains valid data packets of
either 8-bit, 16-bit or 32-bit length. 0 = Packed mode is disabled. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 4:0 0x1f BIT_LENGTH: This field represents the number of bits in a packet to transmit/receive. The minimum bit_length supported is 1 byte (BIT_LEN=7). Only byte aligned bit_length are supported (BIT_LEN=7,15,31). N = N + 1 bits transfer.
- QSPI_COMMAND2_0

- QSPI Registers
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,00xx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
14:10 0x0 Tx_Clk_TAP_DELAY:
- Delays the clock going out to the external device with these tap
values. Useful only in Master Mode. 7:0 0x0 Rx_Clk_TAP_DELAY:
- For master mode, it uses the tap values to delay the internal Rx clock,
which is a loopback from the SCK pad.
- QSPI_TIMING_REG1_0
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:4 0x0 CS_SETUP_0:
- Number of cycles for CS-0 Setup
3:0 0x0 CS_HOLD_0:
- Number of cycles for CS-0 Hold
- QSPI_TIMING_REG2_0
- Offset: 0xc
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000020 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx10,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_0:
- Specifies if CS stays active in between two packets on CS-0
1 = CS active between two packets 0 = RSVD

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
4:0 0x0 CYCLES_BETWEEN_PACKETS_0:
- Number of cycles in between packets for CS-0
- RSVD field
- QSPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x10
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bx0xx,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 RDY:
- Ready bit. This bit is set to 1 at the end of every transfer and an
interrupt is also generated if the corresponding interrupt enable is set in PIO/DMA Mode.
- Software writes a 1 to clear it. The interrupt is also cleared when
this bit is cleared. 0 = NOT_READY 1 = READY 27:0
- RO
0x0 BLK_CNT:
- Counts the number of packets in a transfer (Tx or Rx) PIO/DMA
Mode.
- QSPI_FIFO_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x14
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00400005 (0bxx00,0000,0100,0000,00xx,xxx0,0000,0101)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
29:23
- RO
0x0 RX_FIFO_FULL_COUNT:
- Indicates the number of full slots in the receive PIO FIFO
22:16
- RO
0x40 TX_FIFO_EMPTY_COUNT:
- Indicates the number of empty slots in the transmit PIO FIFO
- RW
0x0 RX_FIFO_FLUSH:
- Flush the PIO Rx FIFO
0 = NOP 1 = FLUSH

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 TX_FIFO_FLUSH:
- Flush the PIO Tx FIFO
0 = NOP 1 = FLUSH
- RW
0x0 ERR:
- Will be set to 1 by Hardware when errors such as underflow/
overflow occurs in PIO/GPCDMA mode. Write 1 to clear the flag. 0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- RW
0x0 TX_FIFO_OVF:
- TX FIFO Overflow
0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- RW
0x0 TX_FIFO_UNF:
- TX FIFO Underflow
0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- RW
0x0 RX_FIFO_OVF:
- RX FIFO Overflow
0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- RW
0x0 RX_FIFO_UNF:
- RX FIFO Underflow
0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- RO
0x0 TX_FIFO_FULL:
- TX FIFO Full
0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL
- RO
0x1 TX_FIFO_EMPTY:
- TX FIFO Empty
0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY
- RO
0x0 RX_FIFO_FULL:
- RX FIFO Full
0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL
- RO
0x1 RX_FIFO_EMPTY:
- RX FIFO Empty
0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY
- QSPI_TX_DATA_0
- QSPI Sub-block Transmit Data Page Buffer Register
- Offset: 0x18
- Read/Write: RO

- QSPI Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- Tx_BUFFER
- QSPI_RX_DATA_0
- QSPI Sub-block Slave Data Page Buffer Register
- Offset: 0x1c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- Rx_BUFFER
- QSPI_DMA_CTL_0
- QSPI Sub-block DMA Control Register
- Offset: 0x20
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0xxx,xxxx,xxx0,0xx0,0xxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 DMA_EN: 1 = DMA mode is enabled, 0 = DMA disabled 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 20:19 0x0 RX_TRIG: Receive FIFO trigger level. 0 = RSVD1 1 = RSVD4 2 = RSVD8 3 = RSVD16

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
16:15 0x0 TX_TRIG: Transmit FIFO trigger level. 0 = RSVD1 1 = RSVD4 2 = RSVD8 3 = RSVD16
- QSPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0
- Offset: 0x24
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
27:0 0x0 DMA_BLOCK_SIZE: N = N+1 packets
- Block size to be transferred in PIO/DMA mode
- QSPI_DMA_MEM_ADDRESS_0
- Offset: 0x28
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0 MEM_ADDRESS:
- Address for data read/write from/to memory
- QSPI_DMA_HI_ADDRESS_0
- Offset: 0x2c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0
- HI_ADDRESS
- QSPI_DMA_FIFO_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x30
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000800 (0b0000,00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xx0x,1000,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
31:26
- RO
0x0
- DMA_FIFO_COUNT
- RW
0x0 DMA_FIFO_FLUSH:
- Flush DMA FIFO
0 = NOP 1 = FLUSH
- RO
0x1 DMA_FIFO_EMPTY:
- DMA FIFO Empty
0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY
- RW
0x0 DMA_FIFO_OVF:
- DMA FIFO Overrun
0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- RW
0x0 DMA_FIFO_UNF:
- DMA FIFO Underrun
0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- RW
0x0 DMA_FIFO_ERR:
- Will be set to 1 by Hardware when errors such as Underflow/
overflow occurs in native DMA mode. Write 1 to clear the flag 0 = OK 1 = ERROR
- QSPI_DMA_TRANSFER_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x34
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:30 0x0 AXI_BRESP:
- AXI Write response
29:28 0x0 AXI_RRESP:
- AXI Read response
27:0 0x0 AXI_BLK_CNT: Number of words transferred to/from memory.
- QSPI_TX_FIFO_0
- QSPI Sub-block Tx FIFO Buffer Register
- Offset: 0x108
- Read/Write: WO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- TX_FIFO_REGISTER
- QSPI_RX_FIFO_0
- QSPI Sub-block Rx FIFO Buffer Register
- Offset: 0x188
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- RX_FIFO_REGISTER
- QSPI_INTR_MASK_0
- QSPI Sub-block Interrupt Mask Register
- Offset: 0x18c
- Read/Write: R/W

- QSPI Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxx00,0000,0xxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 RDY_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for RDY. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when RDY bit is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when RDY bit is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for TX_FIFO_OVF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for TX_FIFO_UNF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for RX_FIFO_OVF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for RX_FIFO_UNF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 DMA_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for DMA_FIFO_OVF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when DMA_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when DMA_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 DMA_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for DMA_FIFO_UNF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when DMA_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when DMA_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- QSPI_SPARE_CTLR_0
- Offset: 0x190
- Read/Write: R/W

- QSPI Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x0fff0000 (0b0000,1111,1111,1111,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:24 0xf
- SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE4
23:16 0xff
- SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE3
15:8 0x0
- SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE2
7:0 0x0
- SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE1
- QSPI_MISC_0
- Offset: 0x194
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x80000000 (0b1xxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 CLKEN_OVERRIDE:
- Override for qspi_clk. Can be used to bypass the SLCG incase of issues. By
default SLCG is not enabled. Software should turn on by writing this bit as 0. 0: qspi_clk is gated 1: qspi_clk is not gated 7:0 0x0 NUM_OF_DUMMY_CLK_CYCLES:
- Number of dummy cycles required in case of Fast read commands. This is
useful only in case of read from flash.
- QSPI_TIMING3_0
- Offset: 0x198
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxx0,0000,xxx0,0000,xxx0,0000,xxx0,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
28:24 0x0 DATA3_LINE_TAP_DELAY:
- Delays the Data3 coming in from the external device with these tap
values

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
20:16 0x0 DATA2_LINE_TAP_DELAY:
- Delays the Data2 coming in from the external device with these tap
values 12:8 0x0 DATA1_LINE_TAP_DELAY:
- Delays the Data1 coming in from the external device with these tap
values 4:0 0x0 DATA0_LINE_TAP_DELAY:
- Delays the Data0 coming in from the external device with these tap
values
- QSPI_CMB_SEQ_CMD_0
- Offset: 0x19c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0 COMMAND_VALUE:
- Contains the Command Value that goes out to flash
- QSPI_CMB_SEQ_CMD_CFG_0
- Offset: 0x1a0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000007 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,xxxx,0000,0111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
14:13 0x0 COMMAND_X1_X2_X4:
- Indicates interface width of CMD
00 = Single bit mode (x1 mode) 01 = Dual mode (x2 mode) 10 = Quad mode (x4 mode) 11 = RSVD 0x0 COMMAND_SDR_DDR:
- Indicates whether CMD is in SDR or DDR mode
0 = SDR ; 1 = DDR

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x7 COMMAND_SIZE: Contains the Command size in bits (n+1). 0x0 = 1-bit wide cmd. 0x1 = 2-bit wide cmd. ... 0x1f = 32-bit wide cmd.
- QSPI_GLOBAL_CONFIG_0
- Offset: 0x1a4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TPM_WAIT_POLL_EN:
- Enable polling for wait state in TPM devices
0x0 CMB_SEQ_EN: Indicates whether Combined sequence mode is enabled or not.
- QSPI_CMB_SEQ_ADDR_0
- Offset: 0x1a8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0 ADDRESS_VALUE:
- Contains the Address Value that goes out to flash
- QSPI_CMB_SEQ_ADDR_CFG_0
- Offset: 0x1ac
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- QSPI Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000017 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,xxxx,0001,0111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
14:13 0x0 ADDRESS_X1_X2_X4:
- Indicates interface width of ADDR
00 = Single bit mode (x1 mode) 01 = Dual mode (x2 mode) 10 = Quad mode (x4 mode) 11 = RSVD 0x0 ADDRESS_SDR_DDR:
- Indicates whether ADDR is in SDR or DDR mode
0 = SDR; 1 = DDR 7:0 0x17 ADDRESS_SIZE: Contains the Address size in bits (n+1). 0x0 = 1-bit wide address. 0x1 = 2-bit wide address. ... 0x1f = 32-bit wide address.
- QSPI_QSPI_COMP_CONTROL_0
- Offset: 0x1ec
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00a0a00X (0bxxxx,xxx0,1010,xxx0,1010,xxxx,x000,0x0x)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
24:20
- RW
0xa COMP_PAD_DRVUP_OVR:
- Used to drive DRVUP input of COMP pad if
- AUTO_CAL_ENABLE is disabled
16:12
- RW
0xa COMP_PAD_DRVDN_OVR:
- Used to drive DRVDN input of COMP pad if
- AUTO_CAL_ENABLE is disabled
6:3
- RW
0x0 QSPI_COMP_PAD_VREF_SEL:
- This is no more used inside COMP pad
7:7 r/w QSPI_COMP_PAD_REG_ON i=0x0
- RW
0x0 QSPI_COMP_PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD:
- Default value is 0 needed to start Calibration. It should be set
as 1 once calibration is done to save power. 2:2 r/w QSPI_COMP_PAD_CLK i=0x0
- RO
X
- QSPI_COMP_CALIB_STATUS
- QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0
- QSPICOMP pad auto-calibration settings

- QSPI Registers
- Offset: 0x1f0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00010000 (0b0000,xxxx,xxxx,x001,xxx0,0000,xxx0,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 AUTO_CAL_START:
- Writing a one to this bit starts the calibration state machine. This bit
must be set even if the override is set in order to latch in the override value. 0x0 AUTO_CAL_OVERRIDE: AUTOCAL override. 0 = NORMAL (normal operation): use AUTO_CAL_PU/PD_OFFSET as an offset to the calibration state machine setting 1 = OVERRIDE: use AUTO_CAL_PU/PD_OFFSET register values directly
- DISABLED
AUTO_CAL_ENABLE: AUTOCAL enable. 0 = DISABLED: use qspi2tmc_cfg* register settings for pullup/down 1 = ENABLED (normal operation): use QSPI generated pullup/down (override or AUTOCAL) 0x0 AUTO_CAL_SLW_OVERRIDE:
- AUTOCAL slew rate override
0 = NORMAL (Normal operation) pad DRVDN/UP_SLWR/F tied to
- AUTO_CAL output
- DRDVDN/UP_SLWR/F[1:0] = AUTO_CAL_PULLDOWN/UP[4:3]
1 = OVERRIDE: use CFG2TMC_QSPI_DRVDN/UP_SLWR/F pins to control pad slew inputs 18:16 0x1 AUTO_CAL_STEP:
- Calibration step interval (in microseconds)
12:8 0x0 AUTO_CAL_PD_OFFSET: 2's complement offset for pull-down value 4:0 0x0 AUTO_CAL_PU_OFFSET: 2's complement offset for pull-up value
- QSPI_AUTO_CAL_INTERVAL_0
- Offset: 0x1f4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0 AUTO_CAL_INTERVAL: 0: Do calibration once
- Otherwise, auto-calibration occurs at intervals equivalent to the
programmed number of microseconds.
- QSPI_AUTO_CAL_STATUS_0
- QSPICOMP pad calibration status
- Offset: 0x1f8
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0xx0,0000,xxx0,0000,xxx0,0000,xxx0,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 AUTO_CAL_ACTIVE:
- One when auto calibrate is active valid only after auto-calibrate
sequence has completed (AUTO_CAL_ACTIVE == 0) 28:24 0x0 AUTO_CAL_PULLDOWN_ADJ:
- Pulldown code sent to pads
20:16 0x0 AUTO_CAL_PULLUP_ADJ:
- Pullup code sent to pads
12:8 0x0 AUTO_CAL_PULLDOWN:
- Pulldown code generated by auto-calibration
4:0 0x0 AUTO_CAL_PULLUP:
- Pullup code generated by auto-calibration
- QSPI_IO_TRIM_CNTRL_0
- This register is used to configure NBSDMEM_TRIM cell
- Offset: 0x1fc
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x0000000a (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,0000,1010)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TRIM_BYPASS_SEL: 0: Uses trimmer clock output pin for sampling 1: Uses trimmer bypass clock output for sampling (no delay)

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:6 0x0 TRIM_SEL_ATEST: For testing purpose only - should be used when QSPI is in idle state. Select analog test signals to send to comp pad. 0x0: Not used (float) 0x1: Regulator input voltage 0x2: Regulator output voltage before analog mux 0x3: Regulator output after analog mux
- ENABLE
TRIM_PWRSAVE:
- Enables power saving mode by clock gating the unused taps in delay
chain
- Active low signal,
0: power saving mode enabled - clock gating is enabled for unused trimmer taps - may affect tap delay 1: no power saving - all the trimmer taps are not clock gated 0 = ENABLE 1 = DISABLE 4:2
- VREF_825_MV
SEL_VREF_LEVEL:
- Selects Vref voltage level
0 = VREF_775_MV 1 = VREF_800_MV 2 = VREF_825_MV 3 = VREF_850_MV 0x1 SEL_VREG: By default, BG is disabled to save power if interface is not used. Software should select BG for error free QSPI operation.
- PROD value: 0x0
- **Software should set this to 0x0 before accessing QSPI. This
setting makes IB trimmer delay independent of VDD_CORE*** 0: Selects regulated reference voltage for trimmer supply - default (recommended option for tunable QSPI modes) 1: Selects VAUXC for trimmer supply and shut down BG+REG circuit (can be used in non-Tunable modes for power saving) Power up time for BG+REG is ~3µs (worst case). Power down time for BG+REG is ~1µs (worst case).
- If Software wants to turn on/off BG+REG when QSPI is idle, it has to
take hit of 3µs power on time. 0x0 SEL_VREF:
- Select reference voltage for voltage regulator
0: Selects Bandgap Voltage Reference (recommended option for
- QSPI tunable modes)
1: Selects resistor divider voltage reference and power down bandgap
- Switching time between the supplies is 1µs. When switching from
one supply to other supply, we need to wait for at least 1µs before doing any data transfers.
- Providing reference voltage from R divider network is just a backup
plan, if: A. Bandgap does not work or, B. Bandgap works very well but we want to save bandgap power when Silicon Characterization results shows that the QSPI interface perform well even by using R divider+REG+TRIMMER
- QSPI_GLOBAL_TRIM_CNTRL_0
- Offset: 0x200
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N

- Pulse Width Modulator (PWM)
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 SEL: 0: Uses clock from NBSDMEM_TRIM cell for sampling (DVFS independent trimmer) 1: Uses clock from prog_dly_256tap for sampling
