# 10.16 Pulse Width Modulator (PWM)
### 10.16.1 Overview
- The SoC has eight Pulse Width Modulator (PWM) outputs. Each PWM output is based on a
frequency divider whose pulse width varies. Each has a programmable frequency divider and a programmable pulse width generator. The PWM controller supports one PWM output for each of its eight instances (PWM1 through PWM8). Each instance is allocated a 64 KB independent address space. Frequency division is a 13-bit programmable value, and pulse division is an 8-bit value. The PWM can run at a maximum frequency of up to 408 MHz. The PWM controller can source its clock from either CLK_M or PLLP. CLK_M (19.2 MHz) is derived from the OSC clock (38.4 MHz). PLLP operates at 408 MHz.
- The PWM clock frequency is divided by 256 before subdividing it based on the programmable
frequency division value to generate the required frequency for the PWM output. The maximum output frequency that can be achieved from this configuration is 408 MHz/256 = 1.6 MHz. This 1.6 MHz frequency can be further divided using the frequency divisor in PWM.
- The OSC clock is the primary/default source for the PWM IP clock. For higher PWM output
frequency requirements, PLLP is the clock source (up to 408 MHz). An APB interface connects the register logic to the APB bus (see the chip block diagram in the Introduction chapter).
#### 10.16.1.1 PWM Diagrams
Each PWM controller contains one programmable pulse width modulator. Each generated pulse has an n/256 duty cycle. The figure below shows a pulse width diagram. The maximum frequency of the device clock is 408 MHz.

- Pulse Width Modulator (PWM)
**Figure 10.159 Pulse Width Diagram**
PWM signals are useful for LCD contrast and brightness control, VCO-generated clocks and other analog voltage references where high precision is not required. The PWM output is typically connected to a low-pass filter as shown in the figure below.
**Figure 10.160 Typical PWM Interface Diagram**

- Programming Guidelines
#### 10.16.1.2 Use Cases
There are eight potential PWM use cases. Seven of the use cases are driven from PWM instances in LSIO, and one is driven from AON (for fan control). The following table summarizes the instances and their naming conventions.
- Table 10.118 Use Case Summary and Naming Convention
- Instance Summary
- Clock Naming
- Pinmux
- Naming(1)
- PWM
- Interface
- Use Case
- Active in Low-
- Power State
(Always On block)
- PWM1
- Display1
- Backlight
- No
- Eight PWM ports,
eight instances of PWM controller pwm1_r_clk soc_gpio54 (GP_PWM1)
- PWM2
- GPU OVR
- No
pwm2_r_clk gp_pwm2 (GP_PWM2)
- PWM3
- CV OVR/General
- Purpose
- No
pwm3_r_clk gp_pwm3 (GP_PWM3)
- PWM4
- FAN Control
- Yes
pwm4_r_clk
- TOUCH_CLK
(GP_PWM4)
- PWM5
- CPU1 OVR/
- General Purpose
- No
pwm5_r_clk soc_gpio12 (GP_PWM5)
- PWM6
- CPU0 OVR (or
- CPU0 and CPU1
- OVR)
- No
pwm6_r_clk soc_gpio13 (GP_PWM6)
- PWM7
- SOC OVR
- No
pwm7_r_clk soc_gpio10 (GP_PWM7)
- PWM8
- Display2
- Backlight
- No
pwm8_r_clk soc_gpio37 (GP_PWM8) 1. Refer to the pinout for the latest information.
### 10.16.2 Programming Guidelines
There are eight PWM controllers on eight individual pins on the chip. Each PWM controller has a single register PWM_CONTROLLER_PWM_CSR_0 (see PWM_CONTROLLER_PWM_CSR_0_x for the bit assignments). Each PWM must be enabled (bit 31) to be operational. Pulse Width [23:16] determines the output pulse width and must be programmed appropriately. Only 8 bits are used for pulse width. Below is the sequence for programming the PWM_CSR register:
- Program the PWM_0 and PFM_0 fields based on the required Pulse Width and Frequency,
respectively. Set ENB to 0x1 to enable the PWM output. 1. 2.

- PWM Registers
- In order to change the PWM_0 or PFM_0 fields, first program ENB to 0, program the required
PWM_0 and PFM_0 fields, and then set ENB to 0x1. For example, for the PWM to generate a 25-kHz pulse with 50% duty cycle, with a 38.4 MHz input clock: For frequency divisor:
- Required frequency = (38.4 / 256) / (1 + PFM_0) = 150 kHz / (1 + PFM_0)
25 kHz = 150 kHz / (1 + PFM_0) 1 + PFM_0 = 6
- PFM_0 = 5
For pulse width:
- Required pulse width (%)= ( N/265 ) * 100
50 = (N *100) / 256 N = 128 = PWM_0 The top-level block diagram (shown below) has the control logic and frequency divider. The APB interface which directly goes to the control logic is also shown. The output is generated from the dividers, with each divider generating one output.
**Figure 10.161 PWFM Functional Block Diagram**
Note: In the frequency division diagram, the clock is divided by 256 and then by the frequency divider input.
### 10.16.3 PWM Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.

- Fan Tachometer
- PWM_CONTROLLER_PWM_CSR_0_0
There is one PWM controller for each individual PWM pin on the chip. For each PWM controller there is a corresponding register. PWM_CSR to program Pulse width and Frequency for that PWM output. Each PWM must be enabled [31] to be operational.
- Pulse Width [23:16] determines the output pulse width and must be programmed
appropriately. Frequency Divider [12:0] determines the Divided clock.
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,xxx0,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ENB: Enable Pulse width modulator
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 30:16 0x0 PWM_0: pulse width that needs to be programmed. 0 = Always low 1 = 1/256 Pulse high 2 = 2/256 Pulse high N = N/256 Pulse high 12:0 0x0 PFM_0: Frequency divider that needs to be programmed.
