# 10.4 MIPI M-PHY
### 10.4.1 Overview
The MIPI® M-PHY® is the physical interface for the Universal Flash Storage (UFS) controller. The NVIDIA® Orin™ can be configured to have up to a two-lane M-PHY transmit and receive interface for UFS on its UPHY interface. M-PHY is a low power end-to-end serial differential interface technology defined by the MIPI Alliance, that features power management and configurable throughput. Refer to the M-PHY specification (MIPI Alliance Specification for M-PHY, v3.1) for the detailed definition of M-PHY. The M-PHY controller is used to allow up to two lanes of the UPHY physical interfaces to be operated in an M-PHY compliant manner as part of the UFS interface, and to provide the RMMI interface defined in Annex A of the M-PHY Specification to the protocol layer controllers above it. M-PHY supports a Type I MODULE. This utilizes Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) signaling with embedded clocks in its LS-MODE. While UFS does define clock and reset signals, the UFS interface utilizes the Type I MODULE, and the clock is not used for LS-MODE signal synchronization.
#### 10.4.1.1 Features
- Two Lanes M-PHY for UFS
- Type I MODULE only
- Supports LINE-CFG with media converters
- Does not support SYS signaling with dedicated synchronous clock signal
- LS-MODE
M-TX and M-RX support up to PWM-G4
- UFS devices may support up to PWM-G4
-
- HS-MODE
M-TX and M-RX support up to HS-G4
- Supports both Rate A and Rate B series
- Low Power
- Supports M-PHY SLEEP, STALL, and HIBERN8 states
- Supports clock gating
- Supports PHY PAD-PLL power down when all links are in DISABLED or HIBERN8 state

- MIPI M-PHY
- Supports power gating when all links are in DISABLED or HIBERN8 state
- Attributes
- Specification defined M-TX/M-RX attributes
- Private attributes for in-house programming
- APB attribute control for accessing all attributes corresponding to a pad brick
40-bit RMMI data interface to protocol layer
- Works with UPHY brick supporting M-PHY analog
- Brick configuration control logic
- Configurable SI dithering support
- Auto detection of Rx polarity or Rx polarity control through M-PHY specification defined
register
- Configurable lane mapping between M-PHY and protocol layer
##### 10.4.1.1.1 Top Level Connection
- RMMI Interface
- The M-PHY supports a Remote Monitor and Maintenance Interface (RMMI) interface, which is
defined as the Reference M-PHY MODULE Interface in the M-PHY specification. It is an interface between the M-PHY and the upper PROTOCOL layer. This is used for register access alongside the APB interface.
##### 10.4.1.1.2 M-TX Digital
M-TX Digital and M-RX Digital blocks are powered only when MTD_Enable and MRD_Enable, respectively, are asserted. The following figure illustrates the top-level block diagram of M-TX Digital, with widths marked for the data buses between functional blocks. The section for M-TX Analog in the figure is for illustration purposes only.

- MIPI M-PHY
**Figure 10.18 M-TX Digital Top-Level Block Diagram**
M-TX LS-MODE transmission, including LCC Command transmission, utilizes the Tx bypass mode of M-TX Analog, where the HS Serializer inside the M-TX Analog is disabled. The complete M-TX Digital data path other than PWM Serializer runs at 1/40 of the link data rate (TX_Symb_Clk). PWM- Serializer works at 3x outbound sub-link data rate (TX_LS_3xbit_Clk) and is responsible to convert the 120-bit parallel interface (40 PWM bits) into the serialized signaling. M-TX HS-MODE transmission utilizes the HS Serializer of M-TX Analog, where the M-TX Digital data path runs at 1/40 of the link data rate (TX_Symb_Clk) until the input of M-TX FIFO at the interface to M-TX Analog.
##### 10.4.1.1.3 Register Block
Register Control is necessary to configure M-TX to the required mode, gear, rate series, or setting other parameters. This configuration control block also provides capabilities of M-TX so that protocol can discover what a module can do and what values of parameters need to be met for reliable module operation. M-TX registers can be accessed either through APB (4.0 Compliant) or through RMMI. The following table shows the read/write permission through both these interfaces.

- MIPI M-PHY
- Table 10.6 Write/Read Permission through APB and RMMI
- Register Set
- RMMI Interface
- APB Interface
- Write
- Read
- Write
- Read
M-TX Configuration Attributes
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
M-TX Capability Attributes
- No
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
M-TX Status Attributes
- No
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- OMC Write-only Attributes
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- Yes
- PVR Registers
- No
- No
- Yes
- Yes
- APB Register Access
Software can write to and read from TX_PRV Registers only through APB, as no write or read path exists through RMMI. Software can write to TX_Capability Registers only through APB, as no write path exists through RMMI. Read can be done from both the interfaces.
- Write Path
Software updates the required APB shadow registers (TX_Capability Register, TX_Configuration Register, OMC_Write_Only_Attribute Registers, and PRV registers) first, then software writes 1 to the Reg_xfer_go bit to transfer the values from the APB shadow register to actual registers, which are used by MTD.
- Read Path
APB read always gives the values present in Actual Registers, however there is short delay (three cycles in worst case) between the value being updated and when it is ready to be read.
- RMMI Register Access
The M-TX digital register is accessed via RMMI along with the reset hookup. Register access via RMMI works on TX_Cfg_Clk.
- Write Path
- The write path to Actual Registers is through RMMI Shadow Registers (TX_Configuration RMMI
- Shadow register, OMC_Write_Only_Attribute RMMI Shadow Register, LCC Sequencer RMMI Shadow
- Register and LCC Enable RMMI Shadow Register). Protocol can write to the RMMI Shadow
Registers at any time, but the values are transferred to Actual Registers only after RCT/CFG_UPD occurs. There is no write path to TX_PRV Registers through RMMI.

- MIPI M-PHY
- Read Path
The read path is directly from Actual Registers and is always enabled irrespective of the state of the M-TX. An RMMI read path does not exist for TX_PRV registers.
- SI Dithering
- SI Dithering is enabled by disabling bypass_dithering (BYPASS_DITHERING = 0) in the
APB_TX_VENDOR2 register for HS-BURST. (By default, dithering is enabled.) M-TX Digital supports eight random start positions for SI Dithering. SI Dithering is performed by inserting the pre- determined pseudo random number of DIF-P bits before the SYNC periods at the start of an HS- Burst and removing the same numbers of DIF-N or DIF-P bits at the Tail-of-Burst of an HS-BURST. UI Shift is set to 0 for all PWM-BURSTs, and UI Shift is set to 0 for all HS-BURSTs when SI Dithering is disabled. When SI Dithering is enabled, UI Shift for each HS-BURST is determined by the following mechanism: 4-bit LFSR to generate the pseudo random UI Shift offset number.
- Implements the polynomial: G(X) = X4 + X + 1
- Advance one shift after each HS-BURST end
- Initialize to 0xFFFF with assertions of M-PHY RESET and M-PHY LINE-RESET
UI Shift = (UI Shift offset) % UI_SHIFT_VALUE, where UI_SHIFT_VALUE = 1, 2, 4, 8, and 4 is the reset value (defined in APB_TX_VENDOR2 register)
- LCC Generator
- LCC Generator is responsible of inserting LCC frames based on the M-PHY specification. For
simplicity, all LCC frames may start at Symbol 0 and end at Symbol 3. LCCs are 10-bit long and are always preceded by a PWM-b0. LINE-INIT is part of, and complete, LCCs except LCC-MODE. The LCC Generator inserts nine PWM-b1s and one PWM-b0 bits between two LCC frames to signal LINE-INIT. LCCs is only issued starting from LINE-INIT state. The LCC Generator outputs DIF-N after the LCC MODE frame ends.
- PWM Serializer and PWM Encoder
PWM-BURST utilizes the bypass path of M-TX Analog, where the parallel to serial signal mapping and PWM signaling transformation are performed by the LS Serializer and PWM Encoder. PWM Encoder runs on TX_Symb_Clk and encodes each bit into 3-bit PWM data. PWM Serializer works on TX_LS_3xbit_Clk and transmits each bit to Analog pad.

- MIPI M-PHY
M-TX FSM and Burst FSM M-PHY specification depicts the required (Type-I) FSM for M-TX. Upon de-assertion of M-PHY Reset or fundamental reset, M-TX transitions to HIBERN8 state and waits in this state until TX_HIBERN8_Control is set to EXIT and TX_CfgUpdt is issued.
- Once directed to exit HIBERN8 after power-on sequence, MTD enters SLEEP state. MTD goes to
BURST state by entering PREPARE period when TX_Burst is asserted. PREPARE period is at least TPWM_PREPARE and does not exceed the minimum value of TLINE-RESET-DETECT (1 ms). The following table lists the value of TX_LS_PREPARE_LENGTH required.
- Table 10.7 PREPARE Length Required in LS Mode
- PWM-Gear
- TX_LS_PREPARE_LENGTH
- PWM-G1
- PWM-G2
- PWM-G3
- PWM-G4
- PWM-G5
- PWM-G6
- PWM-G7
In LS-MODE, the MTD sends the PWM bits, and the input clock rate is programmed to deliver the required PWM-GEAR rate. When TX_Burst is deasserted, MTD ends the burst. MTD transitions to the STALL state when configured to HS-MODE after RCT. The input clock rate allows delivery of the high-speed data rate required for the configured HS-GEAR. MTD starts the
- PREPARE period upon assertion of TX_Burst when TX_MODE=HS_MODE. PREPARE period, THS-
PREPARE. After completion of THS-PREPARE, the MTD starts the SYNC period. During SYNC period, the MTD transmits data stream provided at TX_Symbol when TX_SYNC_Source is set to EXTERNAL_SYNC.
- Otherwise (i.e., TX_SYNC_Source == INTERNAL_SYNC), the MTD generates a default
synchronization pattern which is an alternating D10.5 and D26.5 pattern that starts with either of the two symbols. The default value of TX_SYNC_Source is INTERNAL_SYNC. The SYNC sequence can start with RD of +1 or -1. However, for DC-balance, the SYNC sequence is encoded according to Running Disparity rules. The following table shows the value of TX_HS_PREPARE_LENGTH required.

- MIPI M-PHY
- Table 10.8 HS PREPARE Length Calculation with No Retiming at RMMI
- HS-Gear
- EXTERNAL_SYNC
- INTERNAL_SYNC
- TX_HS_PREPARE_LENGTH
- TX_HS_PREPARE_LENGTH
- HS-G1
> 12 - TSYNC
- HS-G2
> 12 - TSYNC
- HS-G3
> 12 - TSYNC
- HS-G4
> 12 - TSYNC
- Table 10.9 HS PREPARE Length Calculation with Two Retiming Stages at RMMI
- HS-Gear
- EXTERNAL_SYNC
- INTERNAL_SYNC
- TX_HS_PREPARE_LENGTH
- TX_HS_PREPARE_LENGTH
- HS-G1
29 (not possible) > 28 - TSYNC
- HS-G2
> 28 - TSYNC
- HS-G3
> 28 - TSYNC
- HS-G4
> 28 - TSYNC
- PAYLOAD of BURST is transmitted after the SYNC period in HS-MODE and after the PREPARE
period in PWM-BURST. PAYLOAD starts with a MARKER0 and ends with any symbol before a TAIL- OF-BURST.
- In HS-MODE, after sending the SYNC sequence for TSYNC period, the M-TX sends MARKER0 upon
protocol request. If protocol does not make symbol transmission request after TSYNC has elapsed, the M-TX continues to send the SYNC sequence. In LS-MODE, the PREPARE period is extended after it has elapsed in case protocol does not request symbol transmission in time. However, in LS- MODE, the Protocol ensures that PREPARE period is less than TLINE-RESET-DETECT (1 ms). If during a BURST at any time after the first MARKER0 the protocol does not provide the next symbol request on time, the MTD inserts FILLER symbols to prevent failure and corruption of the serial stream.
- Upon deassertion of TX_Burst signal, MTD sends TOB to go to the LINE-CFG state if
TX_LCC_Enable == YES and TX_CfgUpdt issued, or any configuration write request is made. Otherwise, MTD sends TOB to indicate SLEEP or STALL state entry. MTD provides TX_Controlled_ActTimer signal at RMMI. When this signal is asserted, MTD controls TACTIVATE upon HIBERN8 exit. Otherwise, the protocol controls the TACTIVATE upon HIBERN8 exit. When the TX_Controlled_ActTimer signal level is high when TX_LineReset is asserted, then MTD

- MIPI M-PHY
drives DIF-N at least for TACTIVATE before driving DIF-P for TLINE-RESET. If TX_Controlled_ActTimer is set to "0" when TX_LineReset is asserted, the MTD immediately drives DIF-P for TLINE-RESET.
- After inserting PREPARE and SYNC (for INERNAL_SYNC or EXTERNAL_SYNC) at the beginning of a
BURST, whose lengths are governed by M-TX Configurations registers, M-TX Digital must not insert bubbles in a burst to assert TX_PhyDIRDY. If Protocol chooses EXTERNAL_SYNC and the SYNC symbol request by the Protocol does not meet configured PHY BW target, M-TX Digital inserts default SYNC symbols, alternately, to avoid bubbles.
- ADAPT State
Sub-states of BURST state are depicted below. ADAPT state is mandatory for High Speed GEAR 4 (HS-G4) support. During ADAPT state, Rx (UPHY RX) can perform equalizer training. M-PHY v4.1 specification supports two ADAPT operation options: INITIAL and REFRESH. Protocol configures/ controls M-PHY entering ADAPT state with the INITIAL option selected before entry to HS-G4 for the first time since cold boot/fundamental reset de-assertion. Subsequent entry to ADAPT state can use the REFRESH option by protocol.
**Figure 10.19 Sub-states of BURST-SAVE**
- The protocol can initiate subsequent retraining through asserting TX_ADAPT_REQ signal,
reconfiguring TADAPT at the M-TX, and writing the ADAPT_control field of RX_ADAPT_Control from
- SYNC to ADAPT and setting the ADAPT_type field of RX_ADAPT_Control to either INITIAL or

- MIPI M-PHY
- REFRESH. During the execution of ADAPT, starting from TX_ADAPT_REQ de-assertion to
TX_ADAPT_ACTIVE protocol, the controller does not assert the TX_Burst signal. In general, the TX_Burst signal is not asserted while TX_ADAPT_ACTIVE or TX_ADAPT_REQ are asserted.
#### 10.4.1.2 Retiming Interface
The interfaces between M-TX Digital, M-RX Digital, and Protocol adopt the RMMI interface defined in Annex A of the M-PHY Specification.
#### 10.4.1.3 Clocks
Clocks for LS mode and HS mode Rx are generated from REFPLLE (also a form of Core PLL) whose VCO frequency is 625 MHz. HS mode TX clock is generated from UPHY PLL (UPHY_PLL3) residing in UPHY pad.
##### 10.4.1.3.1 Operating Frequencies
- Table 10.10 M-TX Clocks and Operating Frequencies
- Clocks/
- Mode
- PWM-G
- PWM-G2
- PWM-G3
- PWM-G4
- HS-G1
- HS-G2
- HS-G3
- HS-G4
- Rate
A B A B A B A B
- Link
- Freq/BW
(mbps) 3 ~ 9 6 ~ 18 12 ~ 36 24 ~ 72 – 59. – 18. 4 – 6.8 – 73. L.D. - 4.34 H.D. - 8.68 L.D. -8.68 H.D. -17.3 L.D. - 17.36 H.D. - 34.72 L.D. - 34.72 H.D. - 67.77 N/ A N/ A N/ A N/ A N/ A N/A N/ A N/A 1. L.D.
- Rate
slab (Mbps) 2. H.D.
- Rate
slab (Mbps) mphy_<l x>_tx_sy mb_clk 0.11 0.22 0.22 0.43 0.43 0.87 0.87 1.74 .2 36. .4 72. 4.8 .92 9.6 .84
- mphy_<
lx>_tx_2 x_symb_ clk N/A N/A N/A N/A .4 72. 4. 5.9 9.6 .84 9.2 .68 mphy_<l x>_tx_ls _3xbit_c lk 13.02 26.04 26.04 52.08 52.08 104.1 104.1 208.3 N/ A N/ A N/ A N/ A N/ A N/A N/ A N/A

- MIPI M-PHY
- Clocks/
- Mode
- PWM-G
- PWM-G2
- PWM-G3
- PWM-G4
- HS-G1
- HS-G2
- HS-G3
- HS-G4
mphy_<l x>_tx_cf g_clk mphy_tx _1mhz_r ef_clk 1.01 1.01 1.01 1.01 1. 1.0 1. 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 mphy_c ore_pll_f ixed_clk 208.33 208.33 208.33 208.33 8. 8.3 8. 8.3 8.3 .33 8.3 .33 mphy_io bist_clk N/A N/A N/A N/A .0 39. .1 78. 6.2 .25 2.5 .5 mphy_<l x>_pclk (maximu m) Note: 1) L.D. is Lower Data Rate slab and 2) H.D. is Higher Data Rate slab.
- Table 10.11 M-RX Clocks and Operating Frequencies
- PWM
-G3
- PWM
-G4
- HS-G1
- HS-G2
- HS-G3
- HS-G4
- PW
M-
- G2
- Clocks/
- Mode
- PW
M-
- G1
- Rate
A B A B A B A B
- Link Freq/BW
(mbps) 3 ~ 9 6 ~ 12 ~ 24 ~ 1456 – 1459.2 2912 – 2918.4 5824 – 5836.8 11648 – 11673.6 mphy_<lx>_rx _symb_clk 0.30 0.52 1.04 1.95 39.0 39.06 78.1 78.13 156.2 156.25 312.5 312.50 mphy_<lx>_rx _ls_bit_clk 12.0 20.83 41.67 78.13
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
mphy_<lx>_rx _pwm_bit_clk
- UPHY Brick interface clock
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
- NA
mphy_<lx>_rx _cfg_clk mphy_<lx>_p clk (maximum) uphypm2mph yrx_<lx>_rx_h s_analog_sy mb_clk N/A N/A N/A N/A 62.4 72.96 124. 145.92 249.6 291.84 499.2 583.68

- MIPI M-PHY
- PWM
-G3
- PWM
-G4
- HS-G1
- HS-G2
- HS-G3
- HS-G4
- PW
M-
- G2
- Clocks/
- Mode
- PW
M-
- G1
lx = l0/l1/l2/l3 (lane0/lane1/lane2/lane3) mphy_rx_clk_uphy_<lx> - Recovered clock from UPHY
#### 10.4.1.4 Resets
##### 10.4.1.4.1 MTD/MRD Fundamental Reset
- The fundamental reset is triggered by mphy_l<x>_tx_rstn for MTD, and mphy_l<x>_rx_rstn for
MRD. These system Power On Resets (PORs) are controlled directly by the Clock and Reset (CAR) module. The fundamental reset state is: M-TX or M-RX line state machines are in the DISABLED state. All pipelines and data path state machines are reset to default state. All output signals of M-RX data interface are deasserted.
- All output signals of M-TX data interface are deasserted. TX_PhyDIRDY is asserted. This
means data received at the interface are silently dropped.
- All attribute registers, including private registers of MTD, MRD, or MPCTL, are reset to
default values. All output signals of the M-TX or M-RX control interface are deasserted. All inputs of the M- TX or M-RX control interface are ignored. This means all attribute register writes are ignored and all attribute register reads return 0x0. -
- All output signals of MTD, MRD, or MPCTL private control interface are deasserted. All
inputs of the MTD, MRD, or MPCTL private control interface are ignored.
- This means all private attribute register writes are ignored and all private attribute
register reads return 0x0. -
- At the deassertion of the fundamental reset and M-PHY Reset, the M-TX or M-RX line state
machines move to the HIBERN8 states.
##### 10.4.1.4.2 MPHY_CLK_CTRL Fundamental Reset
- The M-PHY reset is triggered by TX_Reset for each MTD and RX_Reset for each MRD. This is
corresponding to cold or warm reset of MIPI UniPro® and is expected to be triggered by the link layer the MTD and MRD are connected to. M-PHY resets are also asserted during power on reset. The M-PHY reset state is:

- MIPI M-PHY
M-TX or M-RX line state machines are in the DISABLED state. All pipelines and data path state machines are reset to default state. All output signals of M-RX data interface are deasserted.
- All output signals of M-TX data interface are deasserted. All inputs of the M-TX data
interface are ignored. This means data received in the interface are silently dropped. All specification defined attribute registers, including those marked as not reset by line reset, of MTD or MRD are reset to default values
- The M-TX or M-RX control interface and the private control interfaces remain operational
during M-PHY reset. - -
- All attribute register writes to specification defined registers are ignored
- All attribute register reads to specification defined registers return the value of the
targeted register.
- All specification defined capability registers may be programmed
-
- All private defined attribute registers of MTD or MRD are not reset
All attribute register writes to private registers are handled accordingly. All attribute register reads to private registers return the value of the targeted register.
- At the deassertion of the M-PHY reset, the M-TX or M-RX line state machines move to the
HIBERN8 states.
##### 10.4.1.4.3 M-PHY Line Reset
The M-PHY line reset is triggered by TX_LineReset for each MTD. The M-PHY line reset is detected by the line reset condition detected on the line for each MRD, where MRD signals line reset state to the link layer by asserting RX_LineReset. The M-PHY line reset state is: M-TX or M-RX line state machines are in the LINE-RESET state. All pipelines and data path state machines are reset to default state. All output signals of M-RX data interface are deasserted.
- All output signals of M-TX data interface are deasserted. All inputs of the M-TX data
interface are ignored. This means data received in the interface are silently dropped. All specification defined attribute registers, excluding those marked as not reset by line reset, of MTD or MRD are reset to default values.
- The M-TX or M-RX control interface and the private control interfaces remain operational
during M-PHY reset. -
- Except those marked as not reset by line reset, all attribute register writes to
specification defined registers are ignored; attribute register writes to registers marked as not reset by line reset are handled accordingly.
- All attribute register reads to specification defined registers return the value of the
targeted register. -

M-PHY Registers
- All private defined attribute registers of MTD or MRD are not reset
All attribute register writes to private registers are handled accordingly. All attribute register reads to private registers return the value of the targeted register. At the de-assertion of the M-PHY Line reset, the M-TX or M-RX line state machines move to the SLEEP state.
##### 10.4.1.4.4 Power Management
- Clock Gating
All clocks of M-PHY must be enabled before reset is de-asserted. First Level Clock Gating is performed through clock enables in the CAR module.
- Power Gating
M-PHY modules must exit to prior Mode/Gear when exiting Hibernate state. During Hibernate (HB8) state M-PHY modules context can be saved if reset would be asserted in SC7 state and associated protocol controller saves its context during SC7. Upon exit from SC7 state, the context of M-PHY modules must be restored before initiating HB8 exit if context is saved. UFSHC and M- PHY are subject to reset during SC7 and software/BootROM perform cold boot initialization upon SC7 exit, i.e., no context is saved and restored.
### 10.4.2 M-PHY Registers
#### 10.4.2.1 Vendor
- MPHY_RX_APB_VENDOR2_0
- Offset: 0x2184
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000,00xx,xxxx,xxx0,xxx0)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 RX_EQ_TRAIN_DONE:
- Rx Equalization training status
- RO
0x0 RX_EOM_DONE:
- Rx EOM status
- RO
0x0 RX_CAL_DONE:
- Rx calibration status

M-PHY Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 RX_CDR_EN:
- Enable Rx CDR
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- RW
0x0 RX_EQ_TRAIN_EN:
- Enable Rx Equalization training
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- RW
0x0 RX_EOM_EN:
- Enable Rx EOM
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- RW
0x0 RX_CAL_EN:
- Enable Rx calibration
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- RW
0x0 ALIGN_FIRST_SYMBOLS:
- Enable aligning first symbols
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- RW
0x0 COMPLETE_BYPASS:
- Bypass symbol locker and 10b8b decoder. Send out received
20bits on data RMMI without locking to MK0. 0 = FALSE 1 = TRUE
- RW
0x0 REGS_UPDATE:
- Write to '1' triggers registers update from APB to symbol clock
domain. Hardware clears this bit once update is done.
- Driver checks this to be zero before it triggers new register
update event.
- MPHY_TX_APB_TX_VENDOR0_0
- Tx vendor specific register. Only accessible by APB, no RMMI access
- Offset: 0x1100
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 REG_XFER_GO:
- Transfer register value from APB domain to symbol clock domain
- Attributes/MC Attributes transfer depend on the byte_en
- All Capability and private registers are copied without looking at byte_en
- It is a hardware clear bit. Read this bit for '0' before asserting it
- REG_XFER_GO = 1, indicates transfer for register values is in progress
#### 10.4.2.2 Clock Control
- MPHY_TX_APB_TX_CLK_CTRL3_0
- Offset: 0x116c
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x0000000a (0b0xxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,1010)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 CORE_PLL_OFF_STATUS: Status of core PLL. '1' indicates REF PLL is off.
- RW
0x1 UPHY_PLL_OFF_ONLY_IN_H8:
- By default UPHY PLL is kept turned on in LS mode. When this bit
is set to '1', UPHY PLL is not turned off in LS mode. Instead UPHY PLL is turned off only in Hibern8/Disabled state.
- RW
0x0 CAR_SW_CONTROL_EN: '1' = CAR is put in software control.
- In this mode, dummy acks are generated within MPHY clock
control block for PLL requests and clock switching requests. '0' = CAR is in hardware sequencer control. ACKs are generated by CAR.
- RW
0x1 CORE_PLL_OFF_OVR:
- CORE_PLL_OFF_OVR=1, indicates REF PLL is turned on
indefinitely
- RW
0x0 UPHY_PLL_OFF_OVR:
- UPHY_PLL_OFF_OVR=1, indicates UPHY PLL is turned on
indefinitely
