# 10.9 Controller Area Network (CAN)
### 10.9.1 Overview
Network (CAN) controllers to support connectivity to two CAN networks at the system level, with (SoC) integrates four Controller Area Network (CAN) controllers for automotive applications. These are based on the Bosch Time-triggered Controller Area Network (M_TTCAN) controller. Orin supports connectivity to two CAN networks at the system level, and connectivity to two CAN networks from the Functional Safety Island (FSI), with each CAN controller acting as an independent device.
- The CAN transceivers themselves are external devices, and Orin supports a variety of CAN
transceivers.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
**Figure 10.137 CAN Controller Block Diagram**
In the figure above: M_TT_CAN above is the CAN controller from Bosch (3rd Party IP). APB Slave interface communicates with the back-bone APB bus.
- APB Request De-Multiplexer re-directs the incoming APB request to Configuration and
- Status Register (CSR) block, Bosch IP’s Slave interface or Message RAM. The APB Response
Multiplexer aggregates the responses from various sub-blocks into the APB Response.
- CAN controller has a separate Message RAM to store incoming/outgoing Messages, Tx
Messages timestamp, filters to be applied on incoming Messages. Message RAM size is 4KB.
- The configuration and status registers block provide a register interface for software to
control the auxiliary interfaces provided by CAN core. There are three auxiliary interfaces provided by CAN Core, these interfaces aggregate signals required for Clock calibration unit, Debug Message unit, coupling two Time Triggered networks and other status signals. A Round Robin arbiter arbitrates between Message RAM access requests from the M_TT_CAN Master interface and the APB interface.
- Req Latch is responsible for latching the APB Read/Write requests from the APB interface
towards Message RAM.
- CAN Fault Generation generates the Fault detect signal from CAN. This is derived from the
IR(interrupt register) and TTIR(time triggered interrupt register) buses provided at M_TT_CAN

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
interface. These are a total of 51 status registers. In addition, there are 51 mask bits provided to make a status Fault or non-Fault. There is additional software configurable register which can set this fault even when there is no interrupt. For AON CAN instances, the fault is connected via AON error collator to SCE_HSMand for FSI CAN instances, the fault is connected via FSI error collator to FSI_HSM.
- Timestamp logic provides the external time stamp for CAN controller which is required in
- CAN FD mode. Internal time stamp is not used in CAN FD mode with Bit Rate Switch. 16-bit
port is available from M_TT_CAN to hook-up the external time stamp counter. To support external timestamping, CAN gets an input TSC in the AON and FSI clusters, respectively.and
- FSI
**Figure 10.138 M_TT_CAN Controller Block Diagram**
#### 10.9.1.1 Revision
Orin implements Version 3.2.3 of the Bosch M_TTCAN Controller.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
#### 10.9.1.2 References
- Bosch M_
FSI_XTAL clock operates at 40 MHz.
- User’s Manual, available from Bosch’s website: (http://www.bosch-semiconductors.de)
Note: Links to Bosch’s website change over time, at the time of writing a Google search for “Bosch CAN IP modules” will find a page with links to all the available M_TTCAN documentation as the first result.
- CAN 2.0 Specification
- CAN FD Specification
#### 10.9.1.3 Hardware Features
- Compliant with ISO 11898 and tested according to ISO/DIS 16845 (CAN conformance test)
- Includes ISO 11898-4, time triggered communication
- Includes ISO/CD 11898-1 CAN FD Frame formats
- Two Independent CAN ports/channels
- Standard frame and extended frame transmission/reception enable
- CAN controller instances within AON cluster can support serial communication data transfer
up-to 15 Mbps. CAN controller instances within FSI cluster can support serial communication data transfer up-to 10 Mbps. 0 – 8 byte data length, with the ability to receive the first 8 bytes when Data length coding is > 8 Bytes 32 message buffers per channel
- Prioritization of transmit buffers
- Receive/transmit history list function
- Automatic block transmission function
- Multi-buffer receive block function
Flexible maskable identifier filter supports of two 32-bit, or four 16-bit, or eight 8-bit filters for each channel
- Programmable data bit time, communication baud rate, and sample point
- As an example, the following sample-point configurations can be configured: 66.7%, 70.0%,
75.0%, 80.0%, 81.3%, 85.0%, 87.5%
- Baud rates in the range of 10 kbps up to 1000 kbps can be configured
Enhanced features:
- Each message buffer can be configured to operate as a transmit or a receive message
buffer
- Transmission priority is controlled by the identifier or by mailbox number (selectable)
A transmission request can be aborted by clearing the dedicated Transmit-Request flag of the concerned message buffer

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
- Automatic block transmission (ABT) operation mode
- Time stamp function for CAN channels 0 to "n" in collaboration with timers
Release from bus-off state by software.
- Wake-Up with integrated low-pass filter (debounce) option to prevent short glitches on CAN
bus, through CAN Rx signal toggling from CAN transceiver
- For normal operation (after wake) there is a digital filter in the CAN controller
- Listen-Only mode to monitor CAN bus
- Loop Back for self-test
- Supports selectable 3.3V or 1.8V I/O statically at board design
#### 10.9.1.4 Software Features
- CAN 2.0 A, B Software Compatible
- Sustain average interrupt of around 2000 messages/s on average of 500 µs/message, with a
peak of 125 µs/message (8000 messages/s @ 1 Mbps)
- CAN Software Isolation from corruption from host side software, continue to execute CAN
program when user, host side software is hung, crashed, or inoperable
- Supports CAN Firmware Update and upgrade securely
- Supports AUTOSAR, MCAL communication CAN Driver API
Supports Android, Linux, QNX, Windows, etc.
- Supports virtualization, concurrent multi-OS
### 10.9.2 Functional Description
- The CAN Controller implements CAN 2.0 and CAN FD specifications. CAN controller instances
within AON cluster can support serial communication data transfer up-to 15 Mbps.CAN controller instances within FSI cluster can support serial communication data transfer up-to 10 Mbps.
#### 10.9.2.1 CAN Clock Domains
##### 10.9.2.1.1 Clocking Policy for AON
- CAN clock requirements are determined by CAN Interface timing requirements. To achieve the
required bit timing on the CAN interface we can make use of several dividers present in the CAN IP. These dividers are: 1.
- BTP – It is the programmable ratio between time_quantum (tq) and CAN Core Clock period. It
can be programmed from 1 to 32 nTQ – Number of time Quanta per bit. It is programmable from 4 to 25. 2.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
So, core clock frequency is given by CCLK_Freq = BTP x nTQ x CAN Interface Data Rate. Further CCLK_Freq should be less than 80 MHz. For HCLK_Freq, we can program HCLK_Freq = {1, 2, 3, 4} x
- CCLK_Freq. Finally, AON PLL frequency should derive an HCLK_Freq that satisfies above
conditions. Additionally: 1. 2.
- Keep HCLK_Freq as high as possible to reduce the latency on APB Bus
Keep CCLK_Freq as high as possible (still less than 80 MHz), to allow larger nTQ, which allows functionality on larger networks at higher frequencies. The following table has the frequency ranges for CAN.
- Clock
- Minimum
- Maximum
- CCLK
8 MHz 80 MHz
- HCLK (always N*CCLK, N=1,2,3,4)
8 MHz 320 MHz
- PCLK (System Dependent)
N/A N/A
- For an AON clocking policy at CAN HCLK = 200 MHz and CCLK = 50 MHz, the valid BTP and nTQ
values are as follows. S.No.
- Data rate
- BTP x nTQ
- Valid BTP
- Valid nTQ
125Kbps
- 50/0.125 = 400
16,20,25 25,20,16 250Kbps
- 50/0.25 = 200
8,10,20,25 25,20,10,8 500Kbps
- 50/0.5 = 100
4,5,10,20,25 25,20,10,5,4 1Mbps
- 50/1 = 50
2,5,10 25,10,5 2Mbps
- 50/2 = 25
1,5 25,5 10Mbps
- 50/10 = 5
- To support 15 Mbps throughput, the valid BTP and nTQ combinations at HCLK = 240 MHz and
CCLK = 60 MHz are as follows. S.No.
- Data rate
- BTP x nTQ
- Valid BTP
- Valid nTQ
125Kbps
- 60/0.125 = 480
20,24,30,32 24,20,16,15 250Kbps
- 60/0.25 = 240
10,12,15,16,20,24 24,20,16,15,12,10 500Kbps
- 60/0.5 = 120
5,6,8,10,12,15,20,24,30 24,20,15,12,10,8,6,5,4 1Mbps
- 60/1 = 60
3,4,5,6,10,12,15 20,15,12,10,6,5,4 2Mbps
- 60/2 = 30
2,3,5,6 15,10,6,5 10Mbps
- 60/10 = 6

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
S.No.
- Data rate
- BTP x nTQ
- Valid BTP
- Valid nTQ
15Mbps =60/15 = 4
##### 10.9.2.1.2 FSI CAN Clocking
For FSI CAN controller instances, the CCLK and HCLK are both fixed at 40 MHz. For a Full-Duplex (FD) operation, a CAN clock frequency of 20 MHz, 40 MHz, or 80 MHz is recommended to guarantee interoperability between different CAN FD implementations. A 40 MHz CCLK is sufficient to provide CAN bit rates up to 10 Mbps.
- Refer to the data sheet for the Orin product being used to determine the maximum data
rates supported. Not all rates shown here are applicable to all products.
#### 10.9.2.2 CAN Resets
Each CAN controller gets a signal reset from SoC. This reset is sync'ed to CAN clocks before it drives logic in a particular CAN Clock domain. Reset for PCLK domain logic is sync'ed to PCLK.
#### 10.9.2.3 External Time Stamp
The external time stamp is required in the CAN FD mode. The internal time stamp is not used in the CAN FD mode with the bit-rate switch. A 16-bit port is available from the M_TT_CAN to hook up the external time stamp counter. The TSC terminal node is available in the AON cluster PG partition. As per the driver requirements, a 1 µs to 10 µs granularity is required for time stamping. FSI_XTAL clock operates at 40 MHz. The terminal node operates under the TSC reference clock which is 31.25 MHz. With this frequency, the terminal node counter LSB gives a 32 ns granularity. By considering tsc [20:5], the result is a 1.024 µs granularity with a wraparound of 67 ms. Since the granularity requirement varies, a way to select the required offset is needed. A 5-bit MUX select is provided which selects the different offsets of the TSC counter which gives the required granularity: granularity = 1.024 µs * 2 ** N Where N = 0, 1, 2..15
- The OFFSET_SEL field in the M_TTCAN_TIME_STAMP_0 register is used to select the required
offset. Note that the value should not be changed dynamically when CAN is in operation.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
The micro-architecture diagram of the time stamp hook-up is shown below. One deep async FIFO is used to synchronize the counter from TSC reference clock to the CAN HCLK. As described above, the starting granularity is 1.024 µs, therefore, there is a new counter value in the offset tsc[20:5] for once in every 32 tsc_ref_clk cycles. The new value is reflected in tsc[20:5] when tsc[4:0] is zero.
- This is the write condition for async FIFO. The time stamp selection bit
m_ttcan_time_stamp_0_timer_sel is provided between the programmable register and TSC counter.
**Figure 10.139 Time Stamp Hook Up**
The time stamp wraparound interrupt is generated even for the external time stamp configuration. For external time stamp mode: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. TSCV register accurately reflects the external time input. Rx time stamps (i.e., RXTS) reflects the external time input for normal and FD modes. Tx event timestamps (i.e., TXTS) reflects the external time input for normal and FD modes. Timeout counter (TOCC) works correctly in FD mode. Time stamp wraparound is generated.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
#### 10.9.2.4 CAN Message RAM
- Each CAN controller has a separate 4KB Message RAM to store incoming/outgoing Messages, TX
Messages timestamp, and Filters to be applied on incoming Messages.
- The generic master interface and CAN APB slave interface are both synchronous to
aon_apb_clk. The Message RAM Wrapper module can pipeline accesses to Message
- RAM. Message RAM is parity protected at byte boundaries to comply with safety
requirements.
#### 10.9.2.5 Round Robin Arbiter Between APB and CAN Core
- Since both APB and CAN Core can access the Message RAM. An arbiter is required between the
write/read requests coming from the two masters. The arbiter used is a simple round-robin arbiter. A few points about the arbiter: It takes the arbiter three HCLKs to service a request.
- When both masters place the request at the same time, the grant is given to the master who
didn't get grant the last time When a master requests access while a request is already in process, the request is stalled until the ongoing request is completed.
- The arbitration happens between requests of the same kind only (i.e., between reads or
between writes and never between a read and a write). In case of read request from one master and write request from another master, write request is given preference.
#### 10.9.2.6 Configuration and Status Registers
There are three auxiliary interfaces provided by TT_CAN Core, these interfaces aggregate signals required for Clock calibration unit, Debug Message unit, coupling two Time-Triggered networks, and some other status signals. These signals are provided as a register interface in case software wants to use them.
- Table 10.68 Status Signals
- Signal Name
- Direction
- Clock Domain
- Comment
dis_mord
- IN
- HCLK
- Required for Production testing. Software
programmable

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
- Signal Name
- Direction
- Clock Domain
- Comment
- Swt
- IN
- ASYNC
- Required for Synchronization of two TT CAN
- Networks. This is the software override for SWT
signal, it can be otherwise driven from SOC, TMP, or RTP signals coming from another CAN controller
- Evt
- IN
- ASYNC
- Required for Synchronization of two TT CAN
- Networks. This is the software override for EVT
signal, it can be otherwise driven from SOC, TMP, or RTP signals coming from another CAN controller
- Soc
- OUT
- HCLK
- Required for Synchronization of two TT CAN
- Networks. This signal is also provided as the
output of CAN controller so that it can be used by another CAN controller to drive its SWT and
- EVT pins
- Tmp
- OUT
- CCLK
- Required for Synchronization of two TT CAN
- Networks. This signal is also provided as the
output of CAN controller so that it can be used by another CAN controller to drive its SWT and
- EVT pins
- Rtp
- OUT
- CCLK
- Required for Synchronization of two TT CAN
- Networks. This signal is also provided as the
output of CAN controller so that it can be used by another CAN controller to drive its SWT and
- EVT pins
- Ascm
- OUT
- HCLK
- Required for Asynchronous Serial
- Communication. ASC not implemented
- Asct
- OUT
- HCLK
- Required for Asynchronous Serial
- Communication. ASC not implemented
dma_ack
- IN
- HCLK
- Required for DMA Message Unit
dma_req
- OUT
- HCLK
- Required for DMA Message Unit
- Cok
- IN
- HCLK
- Required for Clock Calibration Unit. CCU not
implemented ir[31:0]
- OUT
- HCLK
- Though this bus is not used for driving interrupt
controllers it is used for generating faults to HSM. ttir[18:0]
- OUT
- HCLK
- Though this bus is not used for driving interrupt
controllers it is used for generating faults to HSM. txbrp[31:0]
- OUT
- HCLK
Not required.
- Rxfd
- OUT
- CCLK
Not required.
- Txfd
- OUT
- CCLK
Not required. fe[2:0]
- OUT
- HCLK
- Required for Clock Calibration Unit. CCU not
implemented

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
- Signal Name
- Direction
- Clock Domain
- Comment
- Cce
- OUT
- HCLK
- Required for Clock Calibration Unit. CCU not
implemented
- Spt
- OUT
- CCLK
- Required for Clock Calibration Unit. CCU not
implemented
- Mrx
- OUT
- CCLK
- Required for Clock Calibration Unit. CCU not
implemented
- Calf
- OUT
- CCLK
- Required for Clock Calibration Unit. CCU not
implemented
- Aff
- OUT
- HCLK
- Required for Clock Calibration Unit. CCU not
implemented
#### 10.9.2.7 Time-Triggered (TT) CAN
##### 10.9.2.7.1 TT Related Features Supported
- TTCAN Level 0, 1, and 2
- Time Mark Interrupts
- Stop Watch
- Watchdog Timer
- Synchronization to external events
##### 10.9.2.7.2 TT Interface Between the Two CAN Controllers
In CAN based networks (with two CAN controllers and each CAN controller expected to sit on two different Networks), a node such as an NVIDIA SoC can act as a potential gateway between the two networks. In addition to forwarding messages between the two networks, in TT Networks a gateway can compare and align cycle time, global time, and even local time of the two networks (e.g., a Time Master of both networks resided inside the NVIDIA SoC and needed to sync with the other network). To enable this functionality m_ttcan_rtp (RTP – Register TM Interrupt Pulse), m_ttcan_tmp (TMP – Trigger TM Interrupt Pulse), and m_ttcan_soc (SoC – Start of Cycle) outputs of one CAN controller are connected to another CAN controller. These signals are connected to m_ttcan_evt and m_ttcan_swt inputs. For both m_ttcan_evt (EVT – Event Trigger) and m_ttcan_swt (SWT – Stop Watch Trigger) there are four connectivity options – m_ttcan_rtp, m_ttcan_tmp, and m_ttcan_soc outputs from the other CAN controller and a configuration and status register (CSR) field based signal from the same CAN controller.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
#### 10.9.2.8 Bosch IP Specific Features
##### 10.9.2.8.1 Asynchronous Serial Communication
This is a feature supported by the Bosch module but not supported in Orin.
#### 10.9.2.9 Notable Bosch IP Behavior
##### 10.9.2.9.1 Arbitration Between STD Message and EXT Message
Per the CAN 2.0 specification, EXT ID has two parts: Base ID and Extended ID. If Base ID of Extended ID Message is lower in priority (has a higher numerical value) than STD ID Message then STD ID Message WINS arbitration.
- If Base ID of Extended ID Message has same priority (has same numerical value) as STD ID
Message then STD ID Message WINS arbitration. If Base ID of Extended ID Message is higher in priority (has lower numerical value) than STD ID Message then EXT ID Message WINS arbitration.
- Further arbitration between EXT ID Messages with same Base ID is done based on Extended ID
part.
##### 10.9.2.9.2 Prefetch Feature on Transmit Message Handler
The Transmit Message Handler has a prefetch buffer of two, so it can retrieve two Messages from the CAN Message RAM, for which the request is pending, even if the controller is in INIT state. This may lead to unexpected ordering in transmission.
##### 10.9.2.9.3 Debug Message Interface
- Bosch's CAN controller provides a Debug Message sequence. Bosch's CAN IP provides a DMA
(Debug Message) Interface to receive some diagnostic messages from the CAN Interface. This interface is not exposed in hardware. It is tied to some Config and Status registers. If software needs to use the DMA interface, the following sequence is to be implemented: 1.
- Observe DMA_REQ (There is no interrupt fired for DMA_REQ, so we need to poll for
- DMA_REQ)
- Read DMA Packets from CAN Message RAM
- Assert DMA_ACK
- Wait for DMA_REQ to go low
2. 3. 4.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
- Deassert DMA_ACK
5. DMA_REQ and DMA_ACK are register bits in CAN register map.
##### 10.9.2.9.4 Low Power Modes
Bosch's CAN controller supports a clock stop signal and the Host asserts this signal to the CAN Controller whenever it wants to shutdown the CAN clock. The CAN controller in turn drives an acknowledge signal when all outstanding commands are completed.
#### 10.9.2.10 System Interfaces
CAN uses the standard APB interface to connect with the Control Fabric. CAN Rx and CAN Tx signals connect with the CAN PHY outside of the chip. Error pulse for message RAM parity error indication to AON/FSIError collator in the respective cluster. Fault signal for connectivity with HSM via AON/FSIError collator in the respective cluster. Input TSC for Timestamping of CAN messages during CAN data transfer. Two Interrupts from the CAN controller to connect with AON VIC and LIC in the AON cluster.
- AON-CAN Interrupts are also routed to the AON-GTE module. The GTE module is used to
timestamp various CAN events that can result in an interrupt. FSI-CAN interrupts (two per instance) are connected to the FSI_GIC and CSHM_AVIC.
#### 10.9.2.11 CAN SoC Interface
Each CAN Interface has six pins:
- CAN_TX
- CAN_RX
- CAN_STB
- CAN_WAK
- CAN_EN
- CAN_ERR
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. These pins are driven from pads that have a switchable voltage supply (between 1.8V and 3.3V). Only CAN_TX and CAN_RX interface with the CAN Controller. Others are GPIOs controlled directly by CAN software.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
### 10.9.3 Programming Guidelines
Assuming use of supplied software driver, this section covers only extra programming options provided.
#### 10.9.3.1 Selecting Trigger Source for SWT and EVT
For both SWT and EVT inputs, an option is provided to select from four sources. The following register fields are involved for EVT:
- EXT_SYNC_SELECT.EVT_SEL – External Synchronization trigger source for EVT
- CONTROL_REGISTER0.EVT – Software Trigger for EVT
- Table 10.69 EVT_SEL Field
- EXT_SYNC_SELECT.EVT_SEL
- Comment
- EVT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from SoC output of another CAN controller
- EVT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from TMP output of another CAN controller
- EVT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from RTP output of another CAN controller
- EVT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from CONTROL_REGISTER0.EVT register field
The following register fields are involved for SWT:
- EXT_SYNC_SELECT.SWT_SEL – External Synchronization trigger source for SWT
- CONTROL_REGISTER0.SWT – Software Trigger for SWT
- Table 10.70 SWT_SEL Field
- EXT_SYNC_SELECT.SWT_SEL
- Comment
- SWT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from SoC output of another CAN controller
- SWT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from TMP output of another CAN controller
- SWT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from RTP output of another CAN controller
- SWT pin of M_TT_CAN is driven from CONTROL_REGISTER0.SWT register
field

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
#### 10.9.3.2 Selecting Sources for Fault Detect Signal to HSM
A fault detect signal is generated from each CAN controller and routed to HSM. The Fault detect signal from CAN to HSM is derived from the IR (interrupt register) and TTIR (time triggered interrupt register) buses providedat Bosch IP's interface. These are a total of 51 status registers. In addition, there are 51 mask bits provided to make a status Fault or non-Fault. Mask registers are:
- HSM_MASK0.IR
- HSM_MASK1.TTIR
Programming 1'b1 at any location makes corresponding interrupt as Fault. For details about each bit in IR and TTIR registers see M_TTCAN_IR_0, M_TTCAN_TTIR_0.
#### 10.9.3.3 Orin Specific Controller Initialization
The Orin series SoC implementation of CAN does not include a Clock Calibration Unit (CCU), the m_ttcan_cok signal generally coming from the CCU is driven from a register bit in CAN Wrapper. As part of controller initialization assert the m_ttcan_cok signal (this is done by programming the CONTROL_REGISTER0.COK bit as 1). To assert the m_ttcan_cok signal, program the CONTROL_REGISTER0.COK bit as 1.
#### 10.9.3.4 Arbitration Between STD Message and EXT Message
Per the CAN 2.0 specification, EXT ID has two parts: Base ID and Extended ID. If Base ID of Extended ID Message is lower in priority (has a higher numerical value) than STD ID Message then STD ID Message WINS arbitration.
- If Base ID of Extended ID Message has same priority (has same numerical value) as STD ID
Message then STD ID Message WINS arbitration. If Base ID of Extended ID Message is higher in priority (has lower numerical value) than STD ID Message then EXT ID Message WINS arbitration.
- Further arbitration between EXT ID Messages with same Base ID is done based on Extended ID
part.
#### 10.9.3.5 Prefetch Feature on Transmit Message Handler
The Transmit Message Handler has a prefetch buffer of two, so it can retrieve two Messages from the CAN Message RAM, for which the request is pending, even if the controller is in INIT state. This may lead to unexpected ordering in transmission.

- CAN Registers
### 10.9.4 CAN Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers. The Base Addresses of the registers related to CAN are specified in the Address Map section of the Orin TRM. M_TTCAN_IR_0 M_TTCAN Interrupt Register Flags
- Offset: 0x1000
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- IR
M_TTCAN_TTIR_0 M_TTCAN Interrupt Register Flags
- Offset: 0x1004
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
18:0 0x0
- TTIR
M_TTCAN_TXBRP_0

- CAN Registers
M_TTCAN Transmit Buffer Request Pending
- Offset: 0x1008
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- TXBRP
M_TTCAN_FD_DATA_0 M_TTCAN CAN FD Data Lines
- Offset: 0x100c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TX
0x0
- RX
M_TTCAN_STATUS_REGISTER0_0 M_TTCAN Status Register
- Offset: 0x1010
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
12:10 0x0
- FE
0x0
- SOC

- CAN Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TMP
0x0
- RTP
0x0
- ASCM
0x0
- ASCT
0x0
- CCE
0x0
- SPT
0x0
- MRX
0x0
- CALF
0x0
- AFF
M_TTCAN_CONTROL_REGISTER0_0 M_TTCAN Control Register
- Offset: 0x1014
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000)
- PROD: 0x00000008 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,1xxx)
- Bit
- Reset
- PROD
- Description
31:16 0x0 _NONE_
- EXT_TS
0x0 0x1
- COK
0x0 _NONE_
- DIS_MORD
0x0 _NONE_
- EVT
0x0 _NONE_
- SWT
M_TTCAN_DMA_INTF0_0 M_TTCAN DMA Interface

- CAN Registers
- Offset: 0x1018
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0
- DMA_REQ
- RW
0x0
- DMA_ACK
M_TTCAN_CLK_STOP_0 M_TTCAN CLKSTOP Interface
- Offset: 0x101c
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0
- ACK
- RW
0x0
- REQ
M_TTCAN_HSM_MASK0_0 M_TTCAN HSM Mask for IR
- Offset: 0x1020
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- IR

- CAN Registers
M_TTCAN_HSM_MASK1_0 M_TTCAN HSM Mask for TTIR
- Offset: 0x1024
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
18:0 0x0
- TTIR
M_TTCAN_EXT_SYNC_SELECT_0 M_TTCAN EVT / SWT Select
- Offset: 0x1028
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,0000,xxx0,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
12:8 0x0
- EVT_SEL
4:0 0x0
- SWT_SEL
M_TTCAN_HSM_SW_OVERRIDE_0 M_TTCAN HSM Software Override
- Offset: 0x102c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- EC_PUL1_OR
0x0
- EC_PUL0_OR
0x0
- OVRD
M_TTCAN_TIME_STAMP_0 M_TTCAN Time Stamp Select
- Offset: 0x1030
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,xxx0,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TIMER_SEL:
- Register or TSC counter value
1 = REG 0 = TSC 4:0 0x0 OFFSET_SEL:
- TSC offset selection
#### 10.9.4.1 CAN Core Registers
- An issue exists with some of the register bits, where the expected function reset-on-read
and set-on-read does not work. Workarounds are noted in the register tables below. The following register status bits inside CAN do not get reset when read: ECR.CEL, PSR.PXE, PSR.RFDF, PSR.RBRS, PSR.RESI. The following register status bits inside CAN do not get set when read: PSR.DLEC, PSR.LEC. M_TTCAN_CORE_CREL_0
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N

- CAN Core Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x32380609 (0b0011,0010,0011,1000,0000,0110,0000,1001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:28 0x3
- REL
27:24 0x2
- STEP
23:20 0x3
- SUBSTEP
19:16 0x8
- YEAR
15:8 0x6
- MON
7:0 0x9
- DAY
M_TTCAN_CORE_ENDN_0
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x87654321 (0b1000,0111,0110,0101,0100,0011,0010,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x87654321
- ETV
M_TTCAN_CORE_CUST_0
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:0 0x0
- RES1
M_TTCAN_CORE_DBTP_0
- Offset: 0xc
- Read/Write: R/W

- CAN Core Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000a33 (0bxxxx,xxxx,0xx0,0000,xxx0,1010,0011,0011)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TDC
20:16 0x0
- DBRP
12:8 0xa
- DTSEG1
7:4 0x3
- DTSEG2
3:0 0x3
- DSJW
M_TTCAN_CORE_TEST_0
- Offset: 0x10
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0
- RX
6:5
- RW
0x0
- TX
- RW
0x0
- LBCK
- RO
0x0
- CAT
- RO
0x0
- CAM
- RW
0x0
- TAT
- RW
0x0
- TAM
M_TTCAN_CORE_RWD_0
- Offset: 0x14
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
15:8
- RO
0x0
- WDV
7:0
- RW
0x0
- WDC
M_TTCAN_CORE_CCCR_0
- Offset: 0x18
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,xx00,0000,0001)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0
- NISO
- RW
0x0
- TXP
- RO
0x0
- EFBI
- RO
0x0
- PXHD
- RW
0x0
- BRSE
- RW
0x0
- FDOE
- RW
0x0
- TEST
- RW
0x0
- DAR
- RW
0x0
- MON
- RW
0x0
- CSR
- RO
0x0
- CSA
- RW
0x0
- ASM
- RW
0x0
- CCE
- RW
0x1
- INIT
M_TTCAN_CORE_NBTP_0
- Offset: 0x1c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- CAN Core Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x06000a03 (0b0000,0110,0000,0000,0000,1010,x000,0011)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:25 0x3
- NSJW
24:16 0x0
- NBRP
15:8 0xa
- NTSEG1
6:0 0x3
- NTSEG2
M_TTCAN_CORE_TSCC_0
- Offset: 0x20
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
19:16 0x0
- TCP
1:0 0x0
- TSS
M_TTCAN_CORE_TSCV_0
- Offset: 0x24
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
15:0 0x0
- TSC
M_TTCAN_CORE_TOCC_0
- Offset: 0x28
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- CAN Core Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0xffff0000 (0b1111,1111,1111,1111,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:16 0xffff
- TOP
2:1 0x0
- TOS
0x0
- ETOC
M_TTCAN_CORE_TOCV_0
- Offset: 0x2c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x0000ffff (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,1111,1111,1111,1111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
15:0 0xffff
- TOC
M_TTCAN_CORE_ECR_0
- Offset: 0x40
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
23:16 0x0
- CEL
0x0
- RP
14:8 0x0
- REC
7:0 0x0
- TEC
M_TTCAN_CORE_PSR_0
- Offset: 0x44
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N

- CAN Core Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000707 (0bxxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,x000,0111,0000,0111)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
22:16
- RW
0x0
- TDCV
- RW
0x0
- PXE
- RW
0x0
- RFDF
- RW
0x0
- RBRS
- RW
0x0
- RESI
10:8
- RW
0x7
- DLEC
- RO
0x0
- BO
- RO
0x0
- EW
- RO
0x0
- EP
4:3
- RO
0x0
- ACT
2:0
- RW
0x7
- LEC
M_TTCAN_CORE_TDCR_0
- Offset: 0x48
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,x000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
14:8 0x0
- TDCO
6:0 0x0
- TDCF
M_TTCAN_CORE_IR_0
- Offset: 0x50
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- CAN Core Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxx00,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ARA
0x0
- PED
0x0
- PEA
0x0
- WDI
0x0
- BO
0x0
- EW
0x0
- EP
0x0
- ELO
0x0
- BEU
0x0
- BEC
0x0
- DRX
0x0
- TOO
0x0
- MRAF
0x0
- TSW
0x0
- TEFL
0x0
- TEFF
0x0
- TEFW
0x0
- TEFN
0x0
- TFE
0x0
- TCF
0x0
- TC
0x0
- HPM
0x0
- RF1L
0x0
- RF1F
0x0
- RF1W
0x0
- RF1N
0x0
- RF0L
0x0
- RF0F

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- RF0W
0x0
- RF0N
M_TTCAN_CORE_IE_0
- Offset: 0x54
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxx00,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ARAE
0x0
- PEDE
0x0
- PEAE
0x0
- WDIE
0x0
- BOE
0x0
- EWE
0x0
- EPE
0x0
- ELOE
0x0
- BEUE
0x0
- BECE
0x0
- DRXE
0x0
- TOOE
0x0
- MRAFE
0x0
- TSWE
0x0
- TEFLE
0x0
- TEFFE
0x0
- TEFWE
0x0
- TEFNE
0x0
- TFEE

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TCFE
0x0
- TCE
0x0
- HPME
0x0
- RF1LE
0x0
- RF1FE
0x0
- RF1WE
0x0
- RF1NE
0x0
- RF0LE
0x0
- RF0FE
0x0
- RF0WE
0x0
- RF0NE
M_TTCAN_CORE_ILS_0
- Offset: 0x58
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxx00,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ARAL
0x0
- PEDL
0x0
- PEAL
0x0
- WDIL
0x0
- BOL
0x0
- EWL
0x0
- EPL
0x0
- ELOL
0x0
- BEUL
0x0
- BECL

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- DRXL
0x0
- TOOL
0x0
- MRAFL
0x0
- TSWL
0x0
- TEFLL
0x0
- TEFFL
0x0
- TEFWL
0x0
- TEFNL
0x0
- TFEL
0x0
- TCFL
0x0
- TCL
0x0
- HPML
0x0
- RF1LL
0x0
- RF1FL
0x0
- RF1WL
0x0
- RF1NL
0x0
- RF0LL
0x0
- RF0FL
0x0
- RF0WL
0x0
- RF0NL
M_TTCAN_CORE_ILE_0
- Offset: 0x5c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- EINT1

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ENIT0
M_TTCAN_CORE_GFC_0
- Offset: 0x80
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
5:4 0x0
- ANFS
3:2 0x0
- ANFE
0x0
- RRFS
0x0
- RRFE
M_TTCAN_CORE_SIDFC_0
- Offset: 0x84
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,00xx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
23:16 0x0
- LSS
15:2 0x0
- FLSSA
M_TTCAN_CORE_XIDFC_0
- Offset: 0x88
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000,00xx)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
22:16 0x0
- LSE
15:2 0x0
- FLESA
M_TTCAN_CORE_XIDAM_0
- Offset: 0x90
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x1fffffff (0bxxx1,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
28:0 0x1fffffff
- EIDM
M_TTCAN_CORE_HPMS_0
- Offset: 0x94
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- FLST
14:8 0x0
- FIDX
7:6 0x0
- MSI
5:0 0x0
- BIDX
M_TTCAN_CORE_NDAT1_0
- Offset: 0x98
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ND31
0x0
- ND30
0x0
- ND29
0x0
- ND28
0x0
- ND27
0x0
- ND26
0x0
- ND25
0x0
- ND24
0x0
- ND23
0x0
- ND22
0x0
- ND21
0x0
- ND20
0x0
- ND19
0x0
- ND18
0x0
- ND17
0x0
- ND16
0x0
- ND15
0x0
- ND14
0x0
- ND13
0x0
- ND12
0x0
- ND11
0x0
- ND10
0x0
- ND9
0x0
- ND8
0x0
- ND7
0x0
- ND6
0x0
- ND5
0x0
- ND4
0x0
- ND3

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ND2
0x0
- ND1
0x0
- ND0
M_TTCAN_CORE_NDAT2_0
- Offset: 0x9c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ND63
0x0
- ND62
0x0
- ND61
0x0
- ND60
0x0
- ND59
0x0
- ND58
0x0
- ND57
0x0
- ND56
0x0
- ND55
0x0
- ND54
0x0
- ND53
0x0
- ND52
0x0
- ND51
0x0
- ND50
0x0
- ND49
0x0
- ND48
0x0
- ND47
0x0
- ND46

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ND45
0x0
- ND44
0x0
- ND43
0x0
- ND42
0x0
- ND41
0x0
- ND40
0x0
- ND39
0x0
- ND38
0x0
- ND37
0x0
- ND36
0x0
- ND35
0x0
- ND34
0x0
- ND33
0x0
- ND32
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXF0C_0
- Offset: 0xa0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000,00xx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- F0OM
30:24 0x0
- F0WM
22:16 0x0
- F0S
15:2 0x0
- F0SA
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXF0S_0
- Offset: 0xa4
- Read/Write: RO

- CAN Core Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xx00,xx00,0000,xx00,0000,x000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- RF0L
0x0
- F0F
21:16 0x0
- F0PI
13:8 0x0
- F0GI
6:0 0x0
- F0FL
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXF0A_0
- Offset: 0xa8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
5:0 0x0
- F0AI
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXBC_0
- Offset: 0xac
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,00xx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
15:2 0x0
- RBSA
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXF1C_0
- Offset: 0xb0
- Read/Write: R/W

- CAN Core Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000,00xx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- F1OM
30:24 0x0
- F1WM
22:16 0x0
- F1S
15:2 0x0
- F1SA
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXF1S_0
- Offset: 0xb4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b00xx,xx00,xx00,0000,xx00,0000,x000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:30 0x0
- DMS
0x0
- RF1L
0x0
- F1F
21:16 0x0
- F1PI
13:8 0x0
- F1GI
6:0 0x0
- F1FL
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXF1A_0
- Offset: 0xb8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
5:0 0x0
- F1AI

- CAN Core Registers
M_TTCAN_CORE_RXESC_0
- Offset: 0xbc
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,x000,x000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
10:8 0x0
- RBDS
6:4 0x0
- F1DS
2:0 0x0
- F0DS
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBC_0
- Offset: 0xc0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bx000,0000,xx00,0000,0000,0000,0000,00xx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TFQM
29:24 0x0
- TFQS
21:16 0x0
- NDTB
15:2 0x0
- TBSA
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXFQS_0
- Offset: 0xc4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000,xxx0,0000,xx00,0000)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TFQF
20:16 0x0
- TFQPI
12:8 0x0
- TFGI
5:0 0x0
- TFFL
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXESC_0
- Offset: 0xc8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
2:0 0x0
- TBDS
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBRP_0
- Offset: 0xcc
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TRP31
0x0
- TRP30
0x0
- TRP29
0x0
- TRP28
0x0
- TRP27
0x0
- TRP26
0x0
- TRP25
0x0
- TRP24
0x0
- TRP23

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TRP22
0x0
- TRP21
0x0
- TRP20
0x0
- TRP19
0x0
- TRP18
0x0
- TRP17
0x0
- TRP16
0x0
- TRP15
0x0
- TRP14
0x0
- TRP13
0x0
- TRP12
0x0
- TRP11
0x0
- TRP10
0x0
- TRP9
0x0
- TRP8
0x0
- TRP7
0x0
- TRP6
0x0
- TRP5
0x0
- TRP4
0x0
- TRP3
0x0
- TRP2
0x0
- TRP1
0x0
- TRP0
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBAR_0
- Offset: 0xd0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- CAN Core Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- AR31
0x0
- AR30
0x0
- AR29
0x0
- AR28
0x0
- AR27
0x0
- AR26
0x0
- AR25
0x0
- AR24
0x0
- AR23
0x0
- AR22
0x0
- AR21
0x0
- AR20
0x0
- AR19
0x0
- AR18
0x0
- AR17
0x0
- AR16
0x0
- AR15
0x0
- AR14
0x0
- AR13
0x0
- AR12
0x0
- AR11
0x0
- AR10
0x0
- AR9
0x0
- AR8
0x0
- AR7
0x0
- AR6
0x0
- AR5
0x0
- AR4

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- AR3
0x0
- AR2
0x0
- AR1
0x0
- AR0
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBCR_0
- Offset: 0xd4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CR31
0x0
- CR30
0x0
- CR29
0x0
- CR28
0x0
- CR27
0x0
- CR26
0x0
- CR25
0x0
- CR24
0x0
- CR23
0x0
- CR22
0x0
- CR21
0x0
- CR20
0x0
- CR19
0x0
- CR18
0x0
- CR17
0x0
- CR16
0x0
- CR15

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CR14
0x0
- CR13
0x0
- CR12
0x0
- CR11
0x0
- CR10
0x0
- CR9
0x0
- CR8
0x0
- CR7
0x0
- CR6
0x0
- CR5
0x0
- CR4
0x0
- CR3
0x0
- CR2
0x0
- CR1
0x0
- CR0
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBTO_0
- Offset: 0xd8
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TO31
0x0
- TO30
0x0
- TO29
0x0
- TO28
0x0
- TO27
0x0
- TO26

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TO25
0x0
- TO24
0x0
- TO23
0x0
- TO22
0x0
- TO21
0x0
- TO20
0x0
- TO19
0x0
- TO18
0x0
- TO17
0x0
- TO16
0x0
- TO15
0x0
- TO14
0x0
- TO13
0x0
- TO12
0x0
- TO11
0x0
- TO10
0x0
- TO9
0x0
- TO8
0x0
- TO7
0x0
- TO6
0x0
- TO5
0x0
- TO4
0x0
- TO3
0x0
- TO2
0x0
- TO1
0x0
- TO0
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBCF_0
- Offset: 0xdc

- CAN Core Registers
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CF31
0x0
- CF30
0x0
- CF29
0x0
- CF28
0x0
- CF27
0x0
- CF26
0x0
- CF25
0x0
- CF24
0x0
- CF23
0x0
- CF22
0x0
- CF21
0x0
- CF20
0x0
- CF19
0x0
- CF18
0x0
- CF17
0x0
- CF16
0x0
- CF15
0x0
- CF14
0x0
- CF13
0x0
- CF12
0x0
- CF11
0x0
- CF10
0x0
- CF9
0x0
- CF8
0x0
- CF7
0x0
- CF6

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CF5
0x0
- CF4
0x0
- CF3
0x0
- CF2
0x0
- CF1
0x0
- CF0
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBTIE_0
- Offset: 0xe0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TIE31
0x0
- TIE30
0x0
- TIE29
0x0
- TIE28
0x0
- TIE27
0x0
- TIE26
0x0
- TIE25
0x0
- TIE24
0x0
- TIE23
0x0
- TIE22
0x0
- TIE21
0x0
- TIE20
0x0
- TIE19
0x0
- TIE18
0x0
- TIE17

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TIE16
0x0
- TIE15
0x0
- TIE14
0x0
- TIE13
0x0
- TIE12
0x0
- TIE11
0x0
- TIE10
0x0
- TIE9
0x0
- TIE8
0x0
- TIE7
0x0
- TIE6
0x0
- TIE5
0x0
- TIE4
0x0
- TIE3
0x0
- TIE2
0x0
- TIE1
0x0
- TIE0
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXBCIE_0
- Offset: 0xe4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CFIE31
0x0
- CFIE30
0x0
- CFIE29
0x0
- CFIE28

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CFIE27
0x0
- CFIE26
0x0
- CFIE25
0x0
- CFIE24
0x0
- CFIE23
0x0
- CFIE22
0x0
- CFIE21
0x0
- CFIE20
0x0
- CFIE19
0x0
- CFIE18
0x0
- CFIE17
0x0
- CFIE16
0x0
- CFIE15
0x0
- CFIE14
0x0
- CFIE13
0x0
- CFIE12
0x0
- CFIE11
0x0
- CFIE10
0x0
- CFIE9
0x0
- CFIE8
0x0
- CFIE7
0x0
- CFIE6
0x0
- CFIE5
0x0
- CFIE4
0x0
- CFIE3
0x0
- CFIE2
0x0
- CFIE1
0x0
- CFIE0

- CAN Core Registers
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXEFC_0
- Offset: 0xf0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxx00,0000,xx00,0000,0000,0000,0000,00xx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
29:24 0x0
- EFWM
21:16 0x0
- EFS
15:2 0x0
- EFSA
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXEFS_0
- Offset: 0xf4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xx00,xxxx,0000,xxx0,0000,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TEFL
0x0
- EFF
19:16 0x0
- EFPI
12:8 0x0
- EFGI
5:0 0x0
- EFFL
M_TTCAN_CORE_TXEFA_0
- Offset: 0xf8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,0000)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
4:0 0x0
- EFAI
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTTMC_0
- Offset: 0x100
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000,00xx)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
22:16 0x0
- TME
15:2 0x0
- TMSA
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTRMC_0
- Offset: 0x104
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b00x0,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- RMPS
0x0
- XTD
28:0 0x0
- RID
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTOCF_0
- Offset: 0x108
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00010000 (0bxxxx,x000,0000,0001,0000,0000,0000,0x00)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- EVTP
0x0
- ECC
0x0
- EGTF
23:16 0x1
- AWL
0x0
- EECS
14:8 0x0
- IRTO
7:5 0x0
- LDSDL
0x0
- TM
0x0
- GEN
1:0 0x0
- OM
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTMLM_0
- Offset: 0x10c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,0000,0000,0000,xxxx,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
27:16 0x0
- ENTT
11:8 0x0
- TXEW
7:6 0x0
- CSS
5:0 0x0
- CCM
M_TTCAN_CORE_TURCF_0
- Offset: 0x110
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x10000000 (0b0x01,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ELT
29:16 0x1000
- DC
15:0 0x0
- NCL
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTOCN_0
- Offset: 0x114
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0x00,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0
- LCKC
- RW
0x0
- ESCN
- RW
0x0
- NIG
- RW
0x0
- TMG
- RW
0x0
- FGP
- RW
0x0
- GCS
- RW
0x0
- TTIE
7:6
- RW
0x0
- TMC
- RW
0x0
- RTIE
4:3
- RW
0x0
- SWS
- RW
0x0
- SWP
- RW
0x0
- ECS
- RW
0x0
- SGT
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTGTP_0
- Offset: 0x118
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- CAN Core Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:16 0x0
- CTP
15:0 0x0
- TP
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTTMK_0
- Offset: 0x11c
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0xxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0
- LCKM
22:16
- RW
0x0
- TICC
15:0
- RW
0x0
- TM
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTIR_0
- Offset: 0x120
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CER
0x0
- AW
0x0
- WT
0x0
- IWT
0x0
- ELC
0x0
- SE2
0x0
- SE1

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- TXO
0x0
- TXU
0x0
- GTE
0x0
- GTD
0x0
- GTW
0x0
- SWE
0x0
- TTMI
0x0
- RTMI
0x0
- SOG
0x0
- CSM
0x0
- SMC
0x0
- SBC
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTIE_0
- Offset: 0x124
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CERE
0x0
- AWE
0x0
- WTE
0x0
- IWTE
0x0
- ELCE
0x0
- SE2E
0x0
- SE1E
0x0
- TXOE
0x0
- TXUE

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- GTEE
0x0
- GTDE
0x0
- GTWE
0x0
- SWEE
0x0
- TTMIE
0x0
- RTMIE
0x0
- SOGE
0x0
- CSME
0x0
- SMCE
0x0
- SBCE
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTILS_0
- Offset: 0x128
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CERL
0x0
- AWL
0x0
- WTL
0x0
- IWTL
0x0
- ELCL
0x0
- SE2L
0x0
- SE1L
0x0
- TXOL
0x0
- TXUL
0x0
- GTEL
0x0
- GTDL

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- GTWL
0x0
- SWEL
0x0
- TTMIL
0x0
- RTMIL
0x0
- SOGL
0x0
- CSML
0x0
- SMCL
0x0
- SBCL
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTOST_0
- Offset: 0x12c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000080 (0b0000,0000,00xx,xxxx,0000,0000,1000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- SPL
0x0
- WECS
0x0
- AWE
0x0
- WFE
0x0
- GSI
26:24 0x0
- TMP
0x0
- GFI
0x0
- WGTD
15:8 0x0
- RTO
0x1
- QCS
0x0
- QGTP
5:4 0x0
- SYS
3:2 0x0
- MS

- CAN Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
1:0 0x0
- EL
M_TTCAN_CORE_TURNA_0
- Offset: 0x130
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00010000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx01,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
17:0 0x10000
- NAV
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTLGT_0
- Offset: 0x134
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:16 0x0
- GT
15:0 0x0
- LT
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTCTC_0
- Offset: 0x138
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x003f0000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xx11,1111,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
21:16 0x3f
- CC
15:0 0x0
- CT

- SDMMC Controller
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTCPT_0
- Offset: 0x13c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
31:16 0x0
- SWV
5:0 0x0
- CCV
M_TTCAN_CORE_TTCSM_0
- Offset: 0x140
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
15:0 0x0
- CSM
