# 8.2 Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator
(PVA)
### 8.2.1 Overview
The Programmable Vision Accelerator (PVA) is an application-specific instruction vector processor that targets computer-vision, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), autonomous driving, along with virtual and mixed reality applications. These are some key areas where PVA capabilities are a good match for algorithmic domains that need to have a predictable processing capability, at low power and low latency. PVA is a critical component of the Computer Vision (CV) subsystem which also contains an ISP engine, the CPU, GPU, and hardware accelerators like NVDLA (NVIDIA's Deep Learning Accelerator), VIC (for LDC), and NVENC (for optical flow). A PVA cluster has the following components:
- Two Vector Processing Units (VPU)
- Two DMA Controllers
A Cortex-R5 based control subsystem A dedicated 1 MiB RAM L2 Buffer
#### 8.2.1.1 Vector Processing Unit
Each Vector Processing Unit (VPU) has a vector core, an instruction cache, and an access to three vector data memories (3 x 128 KiB). The VPU has a single instruction stream with Very Long Instruction Word (VLIW) slots for both scalar and vector instructions. Vector instructions provide bulk of the processing power while scalar instructions are used for parameter preparation and conditional operation.
#### 8.2.1.2 Decoupled Lookup Unit (DLUT)
To offload VPU from processing parallel table lookup with replication, PVA added a decoupled table lookup unit that interacts with VPU to offer higher throughput lookup operations with minimal memory bank conflicts. The DLUT can operate concurrently and in parallel with the VPU process pipeline.
#### 8.2.1.3 DMA Controller
Each DMA has the following features:

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
5-dimensional addressing (block width, block height, and three outer iteration dimensions that can be mapped to horizontal block stepping, vertical block stepping, and depth stepping) A pool of 64 DMA descriptors 16 independent hardware engines (channels) 32 hardware and software events to trigger the DMA channels. Hardware events are driven from local VPU events and DMA channels. Software events can be initiated by the local Cortex-R5 core.
- Circular addressing on both external memory and local memory
- Software sequencing (Software linked descriptors)
- Hardware sequencing for fetching and storing frame data
#### 8.2.1.4 Cortex-R5 Subsystem
A Cortex®-R5 RISC CPU core configures, controls, and monitors VPU and DMA tasks that are needed for PVA functions. The Cortex-R5 processor runs an RTOS and interacts with host CPU and other CV system engines including ISP, hardware accelerators (NVENC), GPU, and NVDLA. The Cortex-R5 subsystem includes an instruction cache, a data cache, and tightly coupled memory (TCM). The subsystem also has other peripheral blocks that are mapped to the PVA cluster address space. These blocks include: A mailbox for asynchronous communications with other PVA control back-bone (CBB) masters A host controller synchronization block A central safety and event controller for error and event aggregation/generation A Network-on-Chip (NoC) for interconnect access An interrupt controller for internal and external interrupts with a global timestamp control A set of general purpose watchdog timers A debug block to handle DFD A local power management block for handling clock and reset control. The block is placed in PVA for local reset and clock gating control for some PVA units.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
**Figure 8.18 PVA Block Diagram**
#### 8.2.1.5 Feature List
- Feature Category
- Features
- Feature Description
- Vector Processor
- Two VPUs + Two VMEMs
- Main vector engine for PVA cluster
- DLUT
- Two DLUT units
- Decoupled Lookup Unit
- Control and Monitor
- Processor
- Cortex-R5 + TCM
- For scheduling, safety control, and scalar operations
- DMA
- Two DMA engines
- To move data between VMEMs, TCM, MMIO, CVNAS,
and memory controller (MC)
- Local interface
- Local data backbone interconnect
512/256/64-bit for data
- Local MMIO interconnect
32 bit for control
- Cluster Clients
- Security SCRs
- NV Security
- Watchdog Timers
3-level expiry
- Mailboxes
- For communication with other SoC masters
- Interrupt controller
- AVIC

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Feature Category
- Features
- Feature Description
- ACTMON
- Activity Monitor x16
- PPM block
- Power management
- Local Buffering
- Scratchpad memory per VPU
3x 128 KB
- Scratchpad memory banking
3x 32 banks x 16-bit
- Safety
- ECC/parity for critical large
memories + parity for data and control + MISR (CRC check on AXI) for permanent faults
- Functional safety. Refer to the Safety Manual for
more details.
#### 8.2.1.6 Application Space Examples
PVA is intended for semi-dense or dense regular computation, even on small data sets, which need predictable run-times with low latency. PVA has built-in multi-dimensional addressing support, that facilitates iterative tasks that require addressing for: 2D: image geometry 3D: point cloud processing
- ROI processing: Volumetric integration
#### 8.2.1.7 CV-PVA Subsystem Top Level Integration
There is one PVA integrated in the CV subsystem. PVA is a Host Controller engine and the MMIO path allows communication or synchronization with other SoC masters.
### 8.2.2 PVA Functional Description
#### 8.2.2.1 PVA Interconnect
PVA has MMIO control interconnect and data backbone interconnect. The interconnect has the following features:
- Transaction Timeout for each target
- Error reporting
- Parity protection for control registers
- Safety error detection and reporting
- Read interleaving
- WRAP to INCR conversion for MC1

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
#### 8.2.2.2 PVA Boot Sequence
PVA goes through the same boot sequence after any of CV rail gating, PVA power gating, or PVA reset. All PVA configuration registers are contained in PVA cluster and upon reset all contents assume default values. The bootloader needs to reprogram all required configuration space as described below. After the boot-load process, the PVA Cortex-R5 runs the PVA image.
##### 8.2.2.2.1 Vector Processor Subsystem Description
The VPU core is a vector SIMD VLIW DSP optimized for computer vision. It fetches instructions through the I-cache and accesses data through the vector memory (VMEM). Major components inside the VPU core are:
- Processor front end: including config/status interface and PC control
- Scalar register file
- Vector register file
- Scalar unit: with two scalar ALUs
- Vector unit: with two vector ALUs
- Memory unit: with three load/store units and address generators
The VPU instruction format is seven-way VLIW, consisting:
- Two scalar operation slots
- Two vector operation slots
- Three memory slots
Each instruction is encoded in 32-bits, and the instruction encoding supports variable-length instructions, thus each execution packet contains between one and seven 32-bit words. The compressed instruction stream is decompressed to full seven instructions per packet and dispatched to the scalar, vector, and memory units. The front end of the processor includes an interface to the instruction cache, 2-level hardware loops, and the fetch/decode stages of the processor pipeline.
- Scalar Unit
The scalar unit supports conventional scalar RISC instruction set. There is a 32-entry, 32-bit, scalar register file. The scalar unit supports two scalar operations per cycle. 32-bit integer/fixed-point as well as 32-bit floating point Add, Sub, Mul, and MAdd operations are supported. Other floating-point operations are emulated in software.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Vector Unit
The vector unit supports various vector processing instructions. There is a 32-entry, 384-bit, vector register file. The vector unit supports two vector operations per cycle. Vector Register File (VRF), processing, and load/store instructions have notion of lane partitioning according to data type. The following data types are supported:
- Word, VRF, and processing as eight lanes x 48-bit, load/store as eight lanes x 32-bit
- Half-word, VRF, and processing as 16 lanes x 24-bit, load/store as 16 lanes x 16-bit
- Byte, VRF, and processing as 32 lanes x 12-bit, load/store as 32 lanes x 8-bit
Various arithmetic/logic operations are implemented in the vector unit. In addition to conventional arithmetic/logic operations. Only integer/fixed-point operations are supported.
- Load/Store Unit
The load/store unit supports up to three load/store instructions. Word, half-word, byte, and some type promotion/demotion are supported. For load (and not for store), both signed/unsigned flavors are supported. Source and destination can be single scalar register, double scalar register, single vector register, or double vector register. Quad-vector-register store is also available to facilitate key filtering benchmarks. Load/store unit also supports various data distributions. In general, memory transactions from load/store instructions should be executed in order through memory dependency checking and dynamic stalling. The VPU has a rich set of load/store features, and for some features it is not feasible to implement the dependency checking. Scalar load/store instructions as well as consecutive-location vector load/store are included in the dependency checking, so they are guaranteed to execute in order. Transposing load/store, parallel table lookup, parallel histogram, and vector addressed stores are excluded from the checking, so they are not guaranteed to execute in order.
##### 8.2.2.2.2 Clock Gating Requirements
The PVA Cortex-R5 software can enable/disable the Vector Processor Subsystem (VPS) clock via the power management unit at the PVA Cluster level. VPS contains second level clock gating (SLCG) that, when enabled, automatically gates off VPU clock to most of VPU and VMEM.
##### 8.2.2.2.3 Design for Test and Debug
- Debug Features
- The VPU has a CoreSight/APB-based debug interface that's hooked up to system-level JTAG
interface and is accessible through JTAG or through CPU software. The VPU debug features are: Enter/exit debug state.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Read program memory
- Invalidate I-cache. Debug writing program memory is implemented by writing to system
memory then invalidates I-cache, which drives I-cache to refetch from system memory. Read/write VMEM.
- Directly feed instruction word to be executed
Read/write processor registers, including PC, scalar/vector register file, hardware loop control registers, predicate register file, and again config register file (through injection of instruction sequence to store the relevant register into VMEM then reading VMEM).
- Read/write GPO, read GPI (through injection of instruction sequence)
- Read/write PC (through injection of instruction sequence)
- Read/write Shadow Execution State (SES) register. The VPU execution state (active, WFE_R5,
- WFE_GPI, error-halted, or halted) before transitioning into debug state is saved in this
register. It is read/write accessible by debug software via OCD_LD/OCD_ST instructions, and can be changed to drive VPU to a different state after exiting the debug state.
- Single step execution
24 watch or break points (combined, for example we can configure them into 18 watch points (VMEM read/write) and six break points (PC).
- Software break points (unlimited), program contents substituted with SWBRK instruction,
upon execution of which, VPU is forced to enter debug state.
- Cross-trigger input/output, to optionally allow other processors enter/exit debug to cause
VPU to enter/exit debug, and vice versa.
##### 8.2.2.2.4 Error Handling
VPU has the following features to detect various errors, mostly to help with software development and debug:
- Illegal instruction detection
- Scalar divide by zero error
- Floating point invalid outcome
Each error source is configurable whether to error-halt in the ERR_HNDL_CFG register. When an error occurs, an interrupt is sent to the Safety and Event Control (SEC) block in PVA top level, where the interrupts are optionally forwarded to Vectored Interrupt Controller (VIC) then to the Cortex- R5. Cortex-R5 and/or SEC can optionally forward error events to system-level error collator. The VPU instruction set allows a register dump assembly sequence to be run, to first save scalar register file, then some scalar registers are over-written to save the rest of the architecture registers.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
##### 8.2.2.2.5 Computation Capabilities
As VPS is an embedded processor subsystem architected for computer vision applications, the following are considered the key computation capabilities. Common operations: For common binary (2-input-1-output) operations like add, subtract, min, max, bitwise and logical, AND, OR, etc., and unary (1-input-1-output) operations like negate, bitwise and logical, NOT, etc. The VPU delivers full vector width utilization (16 x 32-bit, 32 x 16-bit, 64 x 8-bit) in the inner loop. Filtering: Filtering is the key function in image processing and front end of computer vision. VPS delivers full MAC utilization in the filtering inner loop with 16-bit data and 16-bit coefficients. This means 64 multiply-adds per cycle (two vector slots x two term dot-product x 16 half-word lanes). For 8-bit data and 8-bit coefficients, VPU should deliver 128 multiply-adds per cycle (two vector slots x two term dot-product x 32-byte lanes). Interpolated lookup: Interpolated lookup is often used to accelerate various transcendental functions and whatever functions that can be pre-computed at linear spaced points and run-time interpolated. The VPU delivers 3/32 cycles per point throughput for 16-bit input/output. Basically, it takes two bit-extract operations and a blend operation with concurrent 32-way parallel table lookup, to implement interpolated lookup. Histogram: Histogram is a common function in computer vision. VPU delivers 1/8 cycle per 32-bit data point, 1/16 cycle per 16-bit data point, of weighted histogram throughput. Furthermore, with the weighted histogram itself taking one load + one store, there is sufficient memory and vector math slots to implement with the same throughput 2D histogram. FFT: Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) is a basic digital signal processing function, and is often used for radar processing, acceleration of large filtering problems, and for various frequency analysis applications. The VPU does not exceed 1.5 cycles/point for 32-bit data,16-bit twiddle factor, 1024- point FFT. Sorting: Sorting is a basic and versatile compute vision function, and is often used for key/feature matching, for ranking and selection of many outcomes. The VPU does not exceed three cycles/ point for 32-bit data, 1024-point sorting. Floating point: Some floating-point workload is expected in embedded vision applications, for Structure from Motion or Sparse Bundle Adjustment. The VPU supports floating point operations in the scalar unit, achieving peak performance of 1.6 GFLOPs, or 1.6 billion floating point operations per second.
- Function
- Test Case
- Test Configuration
- Innerloop Performance
- Common op
stim/array_add1 16-bit addition 1/32 cycles per pixel (cyc/ pix)
- Filtering 16-bit
stim/filter5 3x3 kernel, 16-bit filtering, kernel rounded up to 3x4 6/32 cyc/pix

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Function
- Test Case
- Test Configuration
- Innerloop Performance
- Filtering 8-bit
stim/filter_8b 3x3 kernel, 8-bit filtering, kernel rounded up to 4x4 8/64 cyc/pix
- Interpolated
lookup 16-bit
- ISA_special_math_
tests 16-bit reciprocal 7/32 cyc/pix
- Histogram 16-
bit histogram/ double_histogram 32-way short lookup 2/32 cyc/pix
- Histogram 32-
bit histogram/ double_histogram 16-way int lookup 2/16 cyc/pix
- FFT 32-bit
- Host_fft_batch_int
1024 complex 32-bit data points, 16-bit twiddle factor
