# 0.25 dB peak-to-peak Passband Ripple (DC to 0.4535 Fs)

- Linear Phase Response
- Support of input formats up to 16, 24, and 32 bits
- Support of up to six streams up to 16 total channels
- Configurable channel assignment
Examples: 1x8 channel + 2x2 channel, 6x2 channel, 1x8 channel + 1x4 channel, etc.
- Worst-case ASRC input to output processing latency to be under ~10 mS in I/O to I/O
transfers (This mainly involves buffering delay for ASRC operations.)
##### 7.7.2.2.14 Audio Ratio Detector
The Audio Ratio Detector (ARAD) has several lanes, each of which has the capacity to find the frequency/time period ratio between any two of the I/O clocks in APE. This has many applications including sample rate conversion without software configuration of the ratio, ppm compensation, etc. While determining the ratio between two clocks, ARAD smooths out one-OFF abnormalities in the clocks so that the ratio value isn't affected by spurious changes in the input clocks.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.15 Audio Direct Memory Access Interface
The Audio Direct Memory Access (ADMA) interface is a gateway in the AHUB for facilitating DMA transfers between memory and all of its clients. Basically it acts as a bridge to convert 32-bit full duplex AXI protocol to 1-bit DVS protocol with sufficient buffering for supporting seamless data transfers.
- ADMA Interface Features
- ADMAIF is the interface between ADMA and AHUB. Each ADMA channel that sends/receives data
to/from AHUB must interface through an ADMAIF channel. ADMA channel sending data to AHUB pairs with an ADMAIF Tx channel. ADMA channel receiving data from AHUB pairs with an ADMAIF Rx channel. Buffer size is configurable for each ADMAIF channel. 4 KiB of buffering per direction for seamless DMA transfers
- Dynamic or software configurable buffer allocation based on bandwidth and latency needs of
each channel A maximum of 20 channels can be configured per direction for audio samples transfer between memory and AHUB clients 32-bit full duplex AXI slave interface to communicate with ADMA for DMA transfers
- Up to 16 words of burst size
- APB slave interface for register programming

