## 0.25 dB peak-to-peak Passband Ripple (DC to 0.4535 Fs)
Linear Phase Response Support of input formats up to 16, 24, and 32 bits Support of up to six streams up to 16 total channels Configurable channel assignment Examples: 1x8 channel + 2x2 channel, 6x2 channel, 1x8 channel + 1x4 channel, etc. Worst-case ASRC input to output processing latency to be under ~10 mS in I/O to I/O transfers (This mainly involves buffering delay for ASRC operations.)
##### 7.7.2.2.14 Audio Ratio Detector
The Audio Ratio Detector (ARAD) has several lanes, each of which has the capacity to find the frequency/time period ratio between any two of the I/O clocks in APE. This has many applications including sample rate conversion without software configuration of the ratio, ppm compensation, etc. While determining the ratio between two clocks, ARAD smooths out one-OFF abnormalities in the clocks so that the ratio value isn't affected by spurious changes in the input clocks.

Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.15 Audio Direct Memory Access Interface
The Audio Direct Memory Access (ADMA) interface is a gateway in the AHUB for facilitating DMA transfers between memory and all of its clients. Basically it acts as a bridge to convert 32-bit full duplex AXI protocol to 1-bit DVS protocol with sufficient buffering for supporting seamless data transfers. ADMA Interface Features ADMAIF is the interface between ADMA and AHUB. Each ADMA channel that sends/receives data to/from AHUB must interface through an ADMAIF channel. ADMA channel sending data to AHUB pairs with an ADMAIF Tx channel. ADMA channel receiving data from AHUB pairs with an ADMAIF Rx channel. Buffer size is configurable for each ADMAIF channel. 4 KiB of buffering per direction for seamless DMA transfers Dynamic or software configurable buffer allocation based on bandwidth and latency needs of each channel A maximum of 20 channels can be configured per direction for audio samples transfer between memory and AHUB clients 32-bit full duplex AXI slave interface to communicate with ADMA for DMA transfers Up to 16 words of burst size APB slave interface for register programming 1-bit ACIF interface per channel to communicate with other AHUB clients through AXBAR Samples transfer through both DMA and register access (PIO mode) Support of packing (8 or 16 bits to 32 bits) in upstream direction and unpacking (32 bits to 8 or 16 bits) in downstream direction
#### 7.7.2.3 ADMA
The ADMA caters to the DMA needs of APE clients. It performs audio samples transfer among system memory, internal memory/ARAM, and AHUB through multiple unidirectional channels. A unidirectional channel is a point-to-point virtual connection for facilitating blocks of data movement with minimal CPU intervention. ADMA is plugged into the APE with the interfaces AXI interconnect for datapath, AHOST/REGDEC for programming interface, and AHUB for DMA requests originating from its internal clients.
##### 7.7.2.3.1 ADMA Features
Flow controlled (Memory ↔ AHUB or AHUB ↔ AHUB) and non-flow controlled (Memory ↔ Memory) DMA transfers DMA requests based on FIFO status of the requesters in case of flow controlled transfers

Audio Processing Engine (APE) Two AXI Master interfaces (One of them dedicated to the transferring of data to and from AHUB and the other one is hooked up to ACONNECT for the transfers to and from ARAM/DRAM) Per channel pre-mask Interrupt for indicating transfer completion to the AGIC AGIC routes the post-mask Interrupt to ADSP/CPU 28-bit word-aligned transfer size that can be configured up to 1 GiB 30-bit word-aligned source and target addresses Page or 4 KiB boundary alignment Per channel configurable burst size up to 16 words for all transfers Auto initialization of transfer size, source and target addresses on completion of programmed words transfer in continuous mode Scatter/Gather through linked list for accessing non-contiguous memory regions Software may use this feature in two scenarios: When requiring streaming of audio samples spread across the memory When requiring less intervention from CPU CPU need not attend the end of Interrupts transfer from ADMA on a regular basis. It can occasionally write a bunch of descriptors into memory and attend other high priority tasks. Descriptor is a set of four registers (SOURCE_ADDR, TARGET_ADDR, TRANSFER_COUNT and NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR) located in consecutive 32-bit entries of DRAM/ARAM starting with SOURCE_ADDR. ADMA fetches next descriptor (SOURCE_ADDR, TARGET_ADDR, TRANSFER_COUNT and NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR) pointed to by the "NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR" of current descriptor for the next transfer while current transfer is in progress and these values are loaded at the end of the current transfer. Initially, it is loaded by software while setting up the channel and then automatically loaded by hardware prior to end of each block transfer to enable seamless streaming. ADMA keeps fetching the descriptor from ARAM/DRAM pointed to by "NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR" until either software disables the channel or "NEXT_DESCRIPTOR_ADDR" register value of current descriptor is "0". Configurable address wrapping window in multiples of burst size for source and target in all modes Up to eight buffers in all three transfer modes (linked list, once and continuous modes) Source and target addresses initialized on completion of all programmed buffers transfer, then Interrupt is generated on completion of every buffer transfer in continuous and linked list modes Interrupt generated on every buffer completion and channel would be disabled on completion of all buffers in once mode Up to eight outstanding reads and writes

Audio Processing Engine (APE) ADMA allowing a maximum of eight reads to source memory and that many writes to the target memory to be outstanding at any given point of time ADMA issuing read/write requests to ARAM/DRAM by mapping channel number to the ARID/AWID of AXI interface so that requests from different channels can pass each other and requests from same channel are handled in order or on first-come-first-serve basis en route to the target elements Weighted Round Robin arbitration scheme for selecting read requests to AHUB and Memory Each DMA channel programmed to a weight/request count so that it gets the grant for issuing that many requests back-to-back. (This is applicable for all flow-controlled (AHUB) and non-flow-controlled transfers (ARAM/ DRAM).) Separate WRR arbiters used for AHUB and Memory Reads to enable un-interrupted full duplex transfer Configurable triggers for initiating DMA transfer Triggers for each channel mapped to end of channel Interrupt of all other DMA channels so that software can choose one of them to instruct the channel to initiate the transfer upon assertion of that particular Interrupt Cut-through data transfers ADMA converting the returned data for the read requests issued to source element into write requests to the target element and forwarding them on AXI write channels in cut-through mode 32 channels where each channel can be configured for DMA transfer in any of four possible directions MEMORY-to-AHUB AHUB-to-MEMORY AHUB-to-AHUB MEMORY-to-MEMORY Threshold-based flow-control for VI/I2C triggered DMA transfer ADMA Channel Virtualization Virtualization of ADMA channel registers in to four 64K pages Separation of ADMA Config registers into another 64K pages APR region and ADAST support Preventing secured data from writing into non-APR region Unsecure ADMA channel (APR disabled) blocking the writing of secure data (APR set) to memory One ADMA error Interrupt per OS page Timestamp capture support 32-bit Timestamp (TSC) captured in timestamp buffer in memory or in register - - Timestamp capture at DMA transfer done 32-bit wraps around about every 2 minutes

Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Per-channel timestamp buffer and register
Programmable outstanding transactions cap per channel Burst size from 1 to 16 words (VI/I2C). 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 for other transfers. Transaction type based on Req Sel
##### 7.7.2.3.2 ADMA Descriptor Format
The ADMA Descriptor is as follows: Table 7.110 ADMA Descriptor Format 32-bit Offset Name Description source_addr Address of the Source Buffer must be 4-byte aligned. Source Buffer could be in DRAM or ARAM. target_addr Address of the Target Buffer must be 4-byte aligned. Target Buffer could be in DRAM or ARAM. transfer_count Value in Transfer_count must be a multiple of 4 (4 bytes). next_descriptor _addr Address of the next descriptor must be 4-byte aligned. Next descriptor could be in DRAM or ARAM. (Address == 0) indicates last Descriptor in the linked list. The address fields, like all the addresses in APE, are only 32 bits wide. This limit applies to both ADSP and ADMA. To access more than 32 bits, there are two options: either use the APE AST's (ACAST or ADAST) to re-map to more than 32 bits, or use SMMU to map to higher than 4G space.
#### 7.7.2.4 REGDEC
REGDEC provides the host interface for ADMA and AHUB in the APE. REGDEC provides only a direct register access path from ADSP/CPU to ADMA/AHUB. Command DMA and command synchronization features in AHOST are not supported by REGDEC. REGDEC receives register requests targeted to ADMA and AHUB, decodes the requests, and forwards the requests to the corresponding REGDEC clients.
##### 7.7.2.4.1 REGDEC Features
AXI3 interface to ACONNECT Host controller client interface to AHUB and ADMA Direct Register Access for AHUB and ADMA Frequency: 100 MHz

Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.2.5 ACONNECT
ACONNECT provides the backbone fabric for APE. Both register (control) and memory accesses are routed through ACONNECT. ACONNECT is implemented using Arm IP NIC-400. ACONNECT supports the AXI3 and APB bus protocols.
#### 7.7.2.6 Audio RAM and Audio Memory Controller
Audio RAM (ARAM) provides a low latency local ARAM to ADSP processor and other modules. Sixteen (16) 32-bit EVP registers provide a vector table at reset.
##### 7.7.2.6.1 Audio Memory Controller Features
AXI3 bus interface to ACONNECT 64-bit Read and Write data channels 16 32-bit EVP registers EVP Registers can be locked by sticky bit 96 KiB ARAM
#### 7.7.2.7 APE Interrupt Controller
The APE Interrupt Controller (AGIC) serves as the Interrupt controller in the APE. It aggregates the Interrupt lines from all the APE modules and distributes them to ADSP and the system. AGIC is an implementation of the Arm GIC-400 Generic Interrupt Controller, revision r0p1. Details downloaded from their website, http://arm.com.

Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.74 AGIC Functional Diagram**
##### 7.7.2.7.1 Shared Peripheral Interrupts
There are two Interrupt lines (FIQ/IRQ) per channel. Interrupts that are mapped to FIQ should use group 0. Interrupts that are mapped to IRQ should use group 1. Group 0 is recommended for higher priority Interrupts. Table 7.111 Interrupts Signals to GIC Signal ID I/O Edge/Level Description (not relevant) 31:0 I Level Software-Generated Interrupts (SGI's)

Audio Processing Engine (APE) Signal ID I/O Edge/Level Description adma_eot[31:0] 63:32 I Level ADMA Channel End of Transfer Interrupt ahsp_mbox_full[7:0] 71:64 I Level AHSP Mailbox Full Interrupt ahsp_mbox_empty[7:0] 79:72 I Level AHSP Mailbox Empty Interrupt ashp_shrd_intr[4:0] 84:80 I Level AHSP Shared Interrupt adsp_pmuirq I Level ADSP/PTM Performance Monitoring Unit Interrupt adsp_wdresetreq I Edge ADSP Watchdog Timer Reset Request adsp_l2ccintr I Level ADSP L2 Cache Controller Interrupt ahub_err I Level AHUB Error Interrupt amc_err I Level AMC Error Interrupt adma_err[3:0] 93:90 I Level ADMA Error Interrupts adsp_standbywfi I Level ADSP Standby WFI. ADSP in idle mode. Waiting for Interrupt adsp_standbywfe I Level ADSP Standby WFE. ADSP in idle mode. Waiting for Event adsp_ctiirq I Level Interrupt request by Cortex-A9 debug trigger interface ape_actmon I Level Activity monitoring on ADSP. This Interrupt is from AMISC Reserved 99,98 I Level Reserved Lic2ape_int[1:0] 101,100 I Level LIC to APE Interrupts Reserved 102,103 I Level Reserved i2c_<1,3,8>_int 104,105,106 I Level I2C <1,3,8> Interrupt shsp2ape_db I Level System Door Bell Interrupt top_wdt_fiq I Level Top WDT Fiq Interrupt top_wdt_irq I Level Top WDT Irq Interrupt atke_tmr_irq[3:0] 113:110 I Level ATKE Timer Irq Interrupt atke_wdt_fiq I Level ATKE WDT Fiq Interrupt atke_wdt_irq I Level ATKE WDT Irq Interrupt atke_wdt_error I Level ATKE WDT error Interrupt Reserved 127:117 I Level Reserved

Audio Processing Engine (APE) Notice that ID assignment of SPI starts from 32. Asynchronous Interrupt signals are synchronized in AGIC before sending to GIC-400. Signal adsp_wdresetreq is edge-triggered. The remaining APE Interrupts are level-triggered.
##### 7.7.2.7.2 AGIC Features
32-bit AXI-4 compliant slave interface to ACONNECT Secure access to AGIC registers
##### 7.7.2.7.3 Programming Sequence
Identifying the Supported Interrupts This section discusses how to discover which Interrupts are supported. 1. Read GICD_TYPER. The ITLinesNumber field identifies the number of implemented GICD_ISENABLERns. Write to GICD_CTLR to disable forwarding of Interrupts from distributor to the CPU interfaces For each implemented GICD_ISENABLERn, starting with GICD_ISENABLER0: 2. 3. Write (GICD_ISENABLERn = 0xffffffff). Read (GICD_ISENABLERn). Bits that read as 1 correspond to supported Interrupt IDs. Discovering Permanently Enabled Interrupts 1. 2. Write (GICD_ICENABLERn = 0xffffffff) to disable all Interrupts that can be disabled. Read (GICD_ICENABLERn). Bits that read as 1 correspond to Interrupts that are permanently enabled. Write (GICD_ISENABLERn[i] = 1), where i corresponds to Interrupts that must be re-enabled. 3. Routing an SPI Interrupt to CPU/ADSP through FIQ using Group 1 1. 2. 3. Write (GICD_ICENABLERn = 0xffffffff) to disable all Interrupts that can be disabled. Write (GICD_CTLR = 0x2) to enable Grp1 Interrupts. Write to Interrupt Configuration Registers, GICD_ICFGRn, to configure Interrupt type (level or edge). Write (GICD_IGROUPR[i] = 1) to set the intended Interrupt to Group1, where i corresponds to the intended Interrupt position. Write to Interrupt Priority Registers, GICD_IPRIORITYRn, to assign Interrupt priority if necessary. Write to GICD Priority Masked Interrupt, GICD_PMR, to set the Interrupt mask level. Write to Interrupt Processor Target Registers, GICD_ITARGETSRn, to direct the Interrupt to CPU. 4. 5. 6. 7.

Audio Processing Engine (APE) 8. 9. Write to Interrupt Set-Enable Register, GICD_ISENABLERn, to enable the Interrupts. Enable CPU Interface Control Register (GICC_CTLR) of the destined CPU. AGIC is based on generic Interrupt controller Arm IP GIC400. It serves as the APE Interrupt controller, which detects, manages, and distributes Interrupts. The GIC-400 complies to AMBA AXI4 protocol and Version 2 of the Arm GIC Architecture Specification. The GIC-400 implements the GICv2 Security Extension. GIC does not support virtual extension. The feature is implemented in GIC-400 but is not used or verified. Cortex-A9 doesn't support virtualization architecture. FIQEn <= 1. Routing an SPI Interrupt to CPU/ADSP through FIQ using Group 0 1. 2. 3. Write (GICD_ICENABLERn = 0xffffffff) to disable all Interrupts that can be disabled. Write (GICD_CTLR = 0x1) to enable Grp0 Interrupts. Write to Interrupt Configuration Registers, GICD_ICFGRn, to configure Interrupt type (level or edge). Write (GICD_IGROUPR[i] = 1) to set the intended Interrupt to Group0, where i corresponds to the intended Interrupt position. Write to Interrupt Priority Registers, GICD_IPRIORITYRn, to assign Interrupt priority by if necessary. Write to GICD Priority Masked Interrupt, GICD_PMR, to set the Interrupt mask level. Write to Interrupt Processor Target Registers, GICD_ITARGETSRn, to direct the Interrupt to CPU. Write to Interrupt Set-Enable Register, GICD_ISENABLERn, to enable the Interrupts . Enable CPU Interface Control Register (GICC_CTLR) of the destined CPU. See Arm GIC Architecture Specification version 2, Table 2-2 and 2-3 for IRQ and FIQ behavior. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. FIQEn <= 1. EnableGrp0 <= 1. Enable Group 0 Interrupts using the FIQ signal. Group1 Interrupts always uses IRQ signal.
#### 7.7.2.8 Audio Miscellaneous (AMISC)
This module contains ADSP configuration registers, timestamp registers for EAVB synchronization, key slots, ACTMON and debug registers.
##### 7.7.2.8.1 AMISC Features
Secure ADSP Configuration Registers Four 128-bit key slots EAVB Timestamp Registers APB4 bus interface to ACONNECT TSC terminal node

Audio Processing Engine (APE) 32-bit data width
#### 7.7.2.9 ACAST and ADAST
There are two instances of AST: ACAST and ADAST. AST is responsible for looking up 40-bit address and transaction attributes based on the 32-bit address.
##### 7.7.2.9.1 ACAST
DRAM accesses originates from ADSP go through ACAST. There are eight AST regions in ACAST. ACAST looks up transaction attributes using address.
##### 7.7.2.9.2 ADAST
DRAM accesses from ADMA and ASRC go through ADAST. There are eight AST regions in ADAST and is looked up based on APR enable and region ID associated with the transactions.
#### 7.7.2.10 APB-AXI Shim
APB-AXI Shim (AAS) is an APB2AXI shim which converts APB requests into AXI requests. The CPU accesses APE registers through the AAS over the APB bus. The AAS converts the requests to AXI and sends to ACONNECT which forwards the requests to the destination slaves.
##### 7.7.2.10.1 AAS Features
APB4 Support of AxProt[2:0] PSLVERR Maximum of one outstanding APB request Support of request INCR 1: 32-bit Read/Write
#### 7.7.2.11 APE HSP
Hardware Sync Primitives (HSP) captures shared mailboxes and shared semaphores from the APE
