## 1.5 stop bit support
N Stop bits 2 stop bit support Y RX error detection Rx FIFO Overrun error Y Character Parity error Y Character Break error Y Character Framing error Y Baud rates Baud Rates supported 9600/57600/115200/460800/3M/4M/ 12M Y Baud tolerance support +/- tolerance range +-2% Mode FIFO mode (32-character FIFO's) Y non-FIFO mode Y DMA mode Y Flow control CTS Flow control in Tx path N RTS Flow control in Rx path N Flush Tx path Tx Flush Y Rx path Rx Flush Y SW Based Force conditions Set Break condition - Tx to send continuous zeroes to indicate BREAK Y Force Parity Y Break during data transmission Y Force RTS Y

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART S. No Feature Sub-feature Details Orin Support FIFO level trigger RX_FIFO trigger different trigger levels Y TX_FIFO trigger different trigger levels Y Loopback Internal loopback Internal loopback between Tx and Rx paths Y Compliance ACPI/SBSA/Standard OS boot Y Interrupts Tx Interrupt Y Rx interrupt Y Rx Timeout interrupt Y Overrun error interrupt Y Parity error interrupt Y Break error interrupt Y Framing error interrupt Y EORD interrupt (end of receive data interrupt) N Modem support Modem related pins support DCD/DRI/DSR/DCTS/RI N Polarity invert_TXD N invert_RXD N invert_CTS N invert_RTS N SIR encoder/decoder Pulse width PWT=3/16th Baud Pulse N Pulse width PWT=4/16th Baud Pulse N
#### 10.13.1.4 Interrupt and Status Generation
The interrupts below are generated in the SBSA UART. These interrupts have mask controllability so software can mask the appropriate interrupt without getting asserted. These interrupts have RAW interrupt status without considering the mask register bits, and masked interrupt status by considering the mask register bits. (Refer to the SBSA UART register section.) 1. 2. OVERRUN INTERRUPT (OERIS) - set when there is overflow of Rx FIFO BREAK INTERRUPT (BERIS) - set when there is break in the reception. Break condition is detected in Rx if input data line is held low for at least one full frame period.

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART 3. 4. 5. PARITY INTERRUPT (PERIS) - set when there is parity error in the reception. FRAME ERROR INTERRUPT (FERIS) - set when there is frame error in the reception. RECEIVE TIMEOUT INTERRUPT (RTRIS) - set when there is no data transmission on the input line for at least a time period of four full data frames. TX INTERRUPT (TXRIS) - set when the Tx FIFO data count is equal to or lower than the programmed trigger level. This can be cleared directly by software, or by writing data until the Tx FIFO data count is greater than the trigger level. Note that the interrupt is set is when the data count is transitioning to lower than trigger level. For example, if the trigger level is set to 16, interrupt is set when data count is crossing from 16 -> 15. If the UART is enabled, data count of Tx FIFO would be zero initially and does not trigger TXRIS interrupt. 6. a. In non-FIFO mode, the interrupt is set if there is no data in FIFO. It is cleared by performing a single write to the transmit FIFO, or by clearing the interrupt. 7. RX INTERRUPT (RXRIS): This is set when the Rx FIFO data count is equal to or greater than programmed trigger level. This can be cleared directly by software, or by reading data until the Rx FIFO data count is below than trigger level. a. In non-FIFO mode, the interrupt is set if there is at least one frame of data to read. It is cleared by performing a single read to the Rx FIFO, or by clearing the interrupt. All interrupts are combined to generate a final interrupt (sbsa_uart_intr) from the SBSA UART to interrupt controller.
#### 10.13.1.5 UART DMA Interface
The UART provides an interface to connect to a DMA controller. The DMA operation of the UART is controlled using the DMA Control Register, UARTDMACR. The DMA interface includes the following signals: DMA_TX_req generation: The UART controller generates an APB DMA Tx ready request (sbsa_uart_dma_tx_req) to indicate its readiness to accept data from DMA. Whenever fifo_mode is enabled and FIFO data count is less than trigger level, tx_fifo_dma_ready is generated. DMA_RX_req generation: The DMA Rx request port is asserted when UART has sufficient data in its FIFO, as programmed by the watermark level, and so is ready to be read by DMA. For example, at 1/8 water mark level, the Rx request to DMA is asserted at least if there are four locations filled in Rx FIFO. It gets de-asserted when the FIFO has less than four locations. In this case, the burst length by DMA should be 4.

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART Table 10.104 DMA Trigger Points for Transmit and Receive FIFOs Watermark Level Transmit Receive (number of empty locations) (number of filled locations) 1/8th 1/4th 1/2nd 3/4th 7/8th Configuration of Parity Signals: PEN – Parity Enable EPS – Even parity Select SPS – Sticky parity Select These parity signals from SBSA_UART_LCR_H_0 register can be configured as shown below. Table 10.105 Parity Signals of SBSA SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 PEN SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 EPS SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 SPS Parity bit (transmitted or checked) X x Not transmitted or checked Even parity Odd parity
#### 10.13.1.6 Error Handling
The UART has an APB slave error port to generate slave error (APB 3.0 spec compliant) when there is an access to register that does not exist (address hole), or when a write request is issued to a read-only register. There are four errors associated to every frame of read data that is read from the FIFO: SBSA_UARTDR_0[11:8] - these are RO status bits and provide the error bits along-side the data read from Rx FIFO. SBSA_UARTRSR_0[3:0] - also captures the same information, but a write to this register clears this content.

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART SBSA_UARTRSR_0: This register captures the Frame/parity/Break/overrun errors associated with data that is present with them in SBSA_UARTDR_0. This register gets overwritten with new error status associated to the data currently present in SBSA_UARTDR_0. Overrun error: This bit is set to 1 if data is received and the Rx FIFO is full. This bit is set along with data that is written into Rx FIFO after it is ready to accept the data after overflow is done. This bit is cleared to 0 by a write to SBSA_UARTRSR_0. Break error: This bit is set to 1 if a break condition was detected, indicating that the received data input was held LOW for longer than a full-word transmission time (defined as start, data, parity, and stop bits). In FIFO mode, this error is associated with the character at the top of the FIFO. When a break occurs, only one character of ‘0’ is loaded into the FIFO. The next character is only enabled after the receive data input goes to a 1 (marking state) and the next valid start bit is received. Parity error: When set to 1, it indicates that the parity of the received data character does not match the parity that the EPS and SPS bits in the Line Control Register, SBSA_UARTLCR_H. This bit is cleared to 0 by a write to UARTRCR. In FIFO mode, this error is associated with the character at the top of the FIFO. Framing error: This bit is set when a received character did not have a valid stop bit (a valid stop bit is 1). This bit is cleared to 0 by a write to SBSA_UARTRSR. In FIFO mode, this error is associated with the character at the top of the FIFO. Programming Guidelines: While software reads the data from the Rx FIFO, these errors are monitored by software by reading the error status information from registers. Interrupts associated to these errors and software can also rely on the interrupts to find if any error has occurred.
#### 10.13.1.7 Clock and Reset
Clock Requirements The UART controller requires two clocks: APB clock baud_clock - Max frequency of this clock is 204 MHz
##### 10.13.1.7.1 baud_clk
Clock Sources

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART 1. UARTI: PLLP_OUT0, CLK_S, CLK_M a. Possible frequencies supported for UART-I (in MHz) = 0.1536, 1.84, 7.37, 48, 62.76, 68, 204 2. UARTJ: PLLP_OUT0, PLLC_OUT0, PLLAON_OUT, PLLC4_muxed (controlled by PLLC4_CLK_SEL), CLK_S, OSC_UNDIV a. Possible frequencies supported for UART-J (in MHz) = 0.1536, 1.84, 7.37, 48, 62.76, 68, 192, To achieve the required baud rate for a given UART controller, the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UART[I-J] _0 register is programmed. The source of clock can be chosen by programming [31:29] of this register and divisor by programming [15:0]. To achieve divisor value of ‘X’, the register is configured with value N=((X-1) *2) Programming of bit 24 determines if the divider value is picked from CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UART[I-J] _0[15:0] or SBSA_UARTIBRD_0_ BAUD_DIVINT [15:0] But only one of them can be used at a time. For example, source clock: CLK_M -> crystal clock of 38.4 MHz To achieve baud rate of 115200, baud_clock needed = 1.8432 MHz To achieve 1.8432 MHz with 38.4 MHz crystal clock, divisor needed is (38.4/1.8432) = 20.833333 Since CAR registers provide divisors with granularity of 0.5, the nearest divisor can be either
