# 0346 :0000 – 0346:FFFF

#### 10.10.2.12 Non-DMA Mode of Transfer (PIO mode)
For the Non-DMA Mode of Transfer to the Card, the Host Driver needs to write into the Buffer Data Port Register. The register access latency is in the range 400-500 ns. The theoretical maximum throughput with this latency is 8-10 MB per second. This does not meet the theoretical maximum for SD High-Speed bandwidth 25 MBps or MMC 52 MBps, but PIO/Non-DMA mode is expected to give such underperformance.
- Boot uses SDMA/ADMA2 and is not affected by the register access latency during actual data
transfer. This is also the latency for programming the registers to initiate transfers. This should not be a bottleneck as this latency affects all modules and not just SDMMC in particular.
#### 10.10.2.13 Standard Driver Support
- The SDMMC supports both Windows and Linux (Android) Drivers. Windows drivers are not open
source and hence have stricter requirements to meet, i.e., they do not support chip-specific routines. For Android Drivers, the standard Linux MMC Driver (Linux Kernel driver which supports all SD, SDHC, SDXC, eMMC, MMC, SDIO cards) is modified to support NVIDIA SDMMC controller. The Linux kernel MMC driver has three layers: Card, Core, and Host. The Host is open source GPL. For platform specific changes, they are in the Host Layer. Changes are done to Card and Core when needed. However, since card and core layers are common to all platforms, this makes the drivers non-standard. Each platform (NVIDIA and non-NVIDIA) has its own platform specific implementation in the host layer. Card and core layers are common to all platforms. There is a defconfig file in the kernel which enables chip-specific CONFIG variables for MMC and disables other platforms so that during

- SDMMC Programming Guidelines
compile time the NV specific driver is selected. Therefore, when the SD card is inserted on running Android phone/tablet/clamshell, the default driver is NV which identifies the card and gets mounted. Note: Each SDMMC controller has a specific use case and requires a separate driver to control it. This means that each SDMMC controller has a unique Software ID in the MC controller.
##### 10.10.2.13.1 SDMMC Drivers
The MMC driver from previous SoCs can be used.
- Table 10.85 Drivers Supported on SDMMC Controllers
- Controller
- Drivers
- Vendor
- Devices Supported
- SDMMC1
- SDHCI4.2 Standard Drivers
- SDHCI4.2 NVIDIA Drivers
- Windows on ARM Android
- SD4.2/SDIO4.1
- SDMMC4
- NVIDIA Boot Drivers
eMMC5.1 driver with CQHCI eMMC5.1

