## 3.4 Control Plane
### 3.4.1 Overview
Backbone/CBB) provides the physical communication paths from the initiators (usually processors) to the register configuration spaces of targets. A module in Orin may be assigned one or more apertures in the SoC Address MAP (AMAP) for its control space. Software generates accesses to this control space for things like setting clocks, asserting resets, configuring DMA, as well as retrieving status, detecting features, reading data from or writing data to a polled device, synchronization, etc. The Control Plane is separate and different from the Data Plane, whose main function is providing high-bandwidth access to off-chip memory like external DDR-RAMs, and on-chip memory like internal SRAMs, via the SoC's data plane. In Orin, the control and data planes are completely orthogonal and do not intersect each other. The control plane is made up of: Control Backbone Fabric - the main control plane fabric across the entire chip. It hierarchically connects to other fabrics in clusters.

Control Backbone (CBB) Error Monitor BPMP Fabric - the fabric in BPMP cluster FSI Fabric - the fabric in SCE cluster RCE Fabric - the fabric in RCE cluster DCE Fabric - the fabric in DCE cluster RCE Fabric - the fabric in RCE cluster AON Fabric - the fabric in AON cluster In addition to those listed above, the Control Plane also includes Host Controller Fabric. In Orin, the Control Plane adds resilience features. These resilience features provide the ability to maintain an acceptable level of service in the presence of faults as well as other challenges to normal operations. If a fault is detected, the safety handling mechanisms for the system can deal with it as appropriate. The Control Plane is not documented in detail as it is invisible to software in normal operation.
### 3.4.2 Control Backbone (CBB) Error Monitor
#### 3.4.2.1 Error Monitor
Each Root Master Node in CBB and Cluster Fabric contains an Error Monitor Module. The errors detected by the Error Monitor are described below. Table 3.7 Errors Detected by CBB Errors Detected by CBB Error Source in CBB or Cluster Fabric Slave Errors AXI Slaves APB Slaves1 Address Decode Errors AXI Slaves AXI Slave Nodes APB Slave Nodes (AXI2APB Bridges) Firewall Errors ARF Shadow Block BLF Shadow Block Cluster Fabric Firewall Block(s) Timeout Errors AXI Slave Nodes APB Slave Nodes (AXI2APB Bridges) Powerdown Error Power Interface (standalone) Power Interface (inside APB Slave Nodes) Unsupported Requests Error AXI Slave Nodes APB Slave Nodes (AXI2APB Bridges BE check)

Control Backbone (CBB) Error Monitor 1 All errors from APB slaves are reported as slave errors. This includes: Firewalls errors within APB slaves Decode Errors within APB slaves Writes to read only registers Any other errors The Error Monitor Module imports an attribute channel (comprising of access request and response attributes). This attribute channel is made available to the Error Monitor each time an error response is detected. In the event one beat of a read transaction is received with error flags set, the request attributes are immediately presented to the Error Monitor, without waiting for subsequent beats. This allows the first access in error to be logged. In case of interleaved read responses this allows error reporting to happen immediately. Error Monitor logs the attributes into its internal registers and asserts (0->1, level) the err_monitor_int output. The error bits that the Error Monitor looks at are: ruser, buser bits which indicate slverr ruser, buser bits which indicate decerr ruser, buser bits which indicate powerdown error ruser, buser bits which indicate firewall error ruser, buser bits which indicate timeout error ruser, buser bits which indicate unsupported access error Table 3.8 ERR_STATUS Register Updated in Error Monitor [b|r]user Slverr [b|r]user decerr [b|r]user firewall [b|r]user powerdown [b|r]ruser timeout [b|r]ruser unsupported Recorded In Error Monitor Slave Error Decode Error Firewall Error PowerDown Error Timeout Error Unsupported Access Error The bits above may be set in plurality and are recorded as such. An APB port in the Error Monitor enables software accesses to its registers. 1. All accesses to Error Monitor must be 32 bits and have all byte strobes asserted. Byte strobes are ignored by Error Monitor and the accesses are treated as though with all byte strobes asserted.

Control Backbone (CBB) Error Monitor 2. Write access to Read Only registers generates SLVERR. In the event this access happens when there is already an error logged in the Error Monitor, then the notification of this error and its logging gets dropped. Read access to all registers is allowed. Accesses to unimplemented registers return SLVERR Error Monitor uses the clock of the Master Node. The value of the other registers when the *ERR_STATUS_0 is not set is don't care, i.e. 3. 4. 5. 6. a. b. The registers can hold either the reset value, or any last error logged value. The registers can continue to hold their value when the *ERR_STATUS_0 bits are cleared 7. Error Monitor implements the mechanism to force the err_monitor_int for each error. This can be used by verification, validation and as a mechanism to check sanity of error reporting in Safety platforms. a. Asserting error through the Force mechanism does not assert LOG_ERR_STATUS_0*. Correspondingly all * LOG_* registers hold bogus values. 8. Any error can be disabled from being reported through the ERR_EN register. This causes the HW to drop the errors when which have ERR_EN=0. In the event an access has multiple errors asserted, and there is at least 1 error which is enabled, then the logging of error is done, but the disabled error is not reported. For ex, Firewall Error was configured as disabled, and an access returned with firewall + decode error, then the access will be reported as only a decode error. Error Monitors store only the access attributes for the first transaction in error. Subsequent responses in in error are recorded as Overflow Status indication. This implies that the depth of Error Monitor logging is essentially for one single transaction.
- LOG_* registers are updated when below conditions are met:
1. 2.
- ERR_STATUS_0 = 0x0
- LOG_* does not already log an error
##### 3.4.2.1.1 Error Notifier
The Error Notifier Module is implemented once per fabric. It collates the err_monitor_int from various Error Monitor blocks and presents a single interrupt to the SoC Interrupt Controller (LIC). The Error Notifier does not latch the interrupt locally, rather simply reflects the value of the input err_monitor_int signals into its STATUS_0 register. It implements a corresponding enable bit per err_monitor_int in INTERRUPT_ENABLE_0 register. The Error Notifier also implements Force Bits per error maintained in the corresponding STATUS register. When a bit <FABRIC>_ERR_NOTIFIER_FORCE_0_0 register is set, it has the same effect as though the corresponding STATUS bit were set (without setting the STATUS bit). If the corresponding bit in the INTERRUPT_ENABLE register is set, an interrupt will be asserted from the Error Notifier block. This bit can be used for software development and for connectivity checking.

Control Backbone (CBB) Error Monitor The interrupt generation pseudocode looks like below: <FABRIC>_EN_CFG_int = OR reduction operator ((status_0 | force_0) & interrupt_enable_0); // Bitwise OR followed by AND followed by reduction operator To clear the interrupt from the Error Notifier, software must service the respective Error Monitor. This deasserts the interrupt from the Error Monitor to Error Notifier, leading to the STATUS_0 being cleared in Error Notifier, and subsequent de-assertion of the interrupt from the Error Notifier. The Error Notifier implements an APB Interface port to access its configuration space. All accesses to Error Notifier must be 32 bits and have all byte strobes asserted. Byte strobes are ignored by Error Notifier and the accesses are treated as though with all byte strobes asserted. Write access to Read Only registers generates SLVERR. Read access to all registers is allowed. Accesses to unimplemented registers return SLVERR. Since the Error Notifier is also an APB slave, errors returned by it are also logged as they would in case of any other erroneous access in the system.
##### 3.4.2.1.2 Handling CBB Interrupts (Error Monitor/Notifier)
Step 0: Base address to be used to prefix to Error Notifier registers: NV_ADDR_MAP_CBB_<FABRIC>_EN_CFG_BASE Base address to be used to prefix to Error Monitor registers: To be determined by reading the Error Notifier registers. Step 1: Enable Error Reporting in Error Notifier for desired Error Monitors, to be done once. Set required bits in <FABRIC>_EN_CFG_INTERRUPT_ENABLE_0_0.ERR_EN_<i>, where i = 0 to number of error monitors in the fabric. Step 2: On receiving an interrupt, the Error Notifier Status register from the Interrupt Handler of the Error Notifier Interrupt. Read <FABRIC>_EN_CFG_STATUS_0_0.ERR_<i>, where i = 0 to number of error monitors in the fabric. Step 3:

Control Backbone (CBB) Error Monitor Query the Address of the Error Monitor which logged the error. Write 1 hot encoded error value read from the <FABRIC>_EN_STATUS_0_0 register into <FABRIC>_EN_CFG_ADDR_INDEX_0_0. Note: In the event multiple bits are set in this register, it indicates that multiple Error Monitors detected valid errors. Software must query each Error Monitor one by one. Read <FABRIC>_EN_CFG_ADDR_HI_0 register Read <FABRIC>_EN_CFG_ADDR_LOW_0 register Determine address of the Error Monitor: uint_64 addr = (<FABRIC>_EN_CFG_ADDR_HI_0 << 32) | <FABRIC>_EN_CFG_ADDR_LOW_0 Step 4: Determine if the Error Monitor is powered up. In general, not needed as the power gating firmware does not abruptly Power Gate IPs. A race condition could power gate the error monitor partition which generated the error before the error could be handled. To avoid this, software may query the PMC registers. PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 registers or IPC with BPMP before accessing the Error Monitor. Step 5: Check if the Error Monitor at the above address indeed has one of its status bits set in ERR_STATUS_0 register. If yes, go to next step, else issue fatal error in software (Error Notifier received a spurious notification). For example: <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ERR_EN_0 = offset 0x200 <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ERR_FORCE_0 = offset 0x204 <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ERR_STATUS_0 = offset 0x208 <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ERR_OVERFLOW_STATUS_0 = offset 0x20C Step 6: Check if <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ERR_OVERFLOW_STATUS_0.OVERFLOW* bits are set. These bits indicate occurrence of plurality of an error before its corresponding Error Status register was cleared by software. In general, it is the first error which is of most importance and should be debugged first. This register gives a hint to software on the type of issue that could have happened.

Control Backbone (CBB) Error Monitor Note: For an AXI read burst access, if multiple beats respond with error, then the OVERFLOW bits will be set for the same access. Step 7: Then address/attributes of the first logged error can be determined by reading the *LOG* error registers. Use the base address = at the "addr" determined from previous step. First logged error = addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_LOG_ERR_STATUS_0 (note that if the first error had multiple error bits set, then this register will also have multiple bits set). Address of access which returned the first error = (addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_LOG_ADDR_HIGH_0 << 32) | (addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_LOG_ADDR_LOW_0) Attributes of access which returned the first error; (refer to the header file to understand each field of the below registers): Read addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_LOG_ATTRIBUTES0_0 Read addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ LOG_ATTRIBUTES1_0 Read addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ LOG_ATTRIBUTES2_0 Read addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ USER_BITS0_0 Note: For Timeout Errors emanating from APB SlaveNodes per client timeout error bit also needs to be cleared in the following register. Query: <FABRIC>_SN_AXI2APB_<>_BLOCK<> _TMO_STATUS_0 If non-zero, determine bit which is non-zero. Recover the IP which gave timeout. Clear client bit in <FABRIC>_SN_AXI2APB_<>_BLOCK<from above> _TMO_0 Step 8: Write 1 to Clear the Error Monitor register to enable subsequent Error Logging. Set: addr + <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ STATUS_0 = 0x3F Software must clear all bits in 1 single write. This also clears: ERR_OVERFLOW_STATUS_0 LOG_ERR_STATUS_0 register Note: It is legal to clear specific bits of the <FABRIC>_<MasterNode>_ STATUS_0 register. The corresponding bits in the ERR_OVERFLOW_STATUS_0 and LOG_ERR_STATUS_0 will also get cleared while others remain unaffected. This, however, complicates programming sequence of software but can be used during debug, if needed and if found useful.

General Purpose Direct Memory Access (DMA) Engines
