## 9.1 Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)
### 9.1.1 Overview
The Clock and Reset Controller (CAR) block contains all the logic needed to control most of the the PLLs and controls most of the clock source programming and clock dividers. For Orin, clocks and resets are controlled by NVIDIA provided firmware running on BPMP. The hardware interface to the clock and reset controls is not documented, and the software documentation should be consulted for details of how these functions are controlled.
### 9.1.2 Reset Controller
associated logic and the system-level reset domains. Asserting any of these domains results in a reset of the majority of VDD_CORE, CV, CCPLEX, and GPU rail logic and, potentially, some or all of the VDD_RTC logic. This reset architecture spans multiple modules, such as PMC, CAR, Timers, and BPMP. It also includes the requirements of the downstream units. This chapter also includes details of unit-level reset generation from these system-level resets and unit-level reset sources, such as software resets and resets for various power-management states. The high-level block diagram for the reset generation logic is shown in the figure below. The reset generation logic is contained both in PMC and CAR and is a subset of those units.

Reset Controller
**Figure 9.1 High Level Reset Diagram**
The reset logic has one main input from the external PMIC and one main output back to the external PMIC. SYS_RESET_N is the reset input to the SoC from the external PMIC. This reset is asserted when all of the pre-boot core logic rails from the PMIC are enabled and stable and de-asserted when the pre-boot I/O and PLL rails from the PMIC, the 32-kHz clock, and reference clocks are enabled and stable. This is the only reset source that asserts all resets from the PMC and CAR. Some register state can persist through the other internal reset sources. SYS_RESET_N is distributed to the PMC for further system reset generation. Also available on this interface are the watch-dog reset WDT_RESET_OUT* pads. These are sideband reset request outputs for PMICs that support such a feature. These pads are pin-muxed and are only used one at a time. By asserting one of these active low outputs (or sending an I2C SFT_RST request for PMICs that do not support this sideband input), it results in the assertion of the SYS_RESET_N to the Orin. The remainder of this section provides an overview of CAR reset logic. Refer to the PMC section for additional details on the PMC logic

Reset Functional Description
#### 9.1.2.1 Reset Functional Description
##### 9.1.2.1.1 CAR System Reset Sequencing
Refer to the Power Management Controller chapter for reset sequencing. The remainder of the system reset sequencing is done in CAR. This sequencing involves interaction with blocks performing pre-boot tasks, such as the fuse block, straps block, and PMC. The following sections detail that sequencing logic.
##### 9.1.2.1.2 AO CAR Sequencing
AO CAR contains both system-level reset sequencing for the AO Cluster and the AO Cluster’s unit reset generation. The L2 cold reset comes in from PMC. The raw L2 reset is passed along to unit reset generation logic as Early L2 reset and ckrstn. There is also a pre-boot version of the L2 cold reset generated for SPE, which delays for valid signals from the fuse and strap blocks, as well as the ready signal from PMC indicating the RAMs are released from sleep. All of the valid signals are only sampled when L2 cold reset is asserted so that it ignores the status when SoC is reset but AO is still active; otherwise, the reset of the fuse and strap blocks during a warm boot would inadvertently assert the AO CAR resets. The pre-boot L2 cold reset (before it is input to the reset extender for the SPE R5) is also an output of AO CAR to feed the reset generation in CAR Center. The AO sequence is shown in the figure below. The L0 cold reset also comes in from PMC to use for the AO MSS DPD controls. The L1 cold reset also comes in from PMC to use for the SPE WDT in AOTKE, RTC (including AO WDT) and TSC. The L2 warm reset also comes in from PMC for modules that need to reset with the SoC modules they communicate with, such as MCCIF.

Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.2 AO CAR Center System Reset Sequencing**
##### 9.1.2.1.3 CAR Center Sequencing
This section details the system reset generation that occurs in the CAR Center module. CAR Center distributes the Level 1 warm resets for DFD unit-reset generation. It also distributes the Level 2 warm resets for ckrstn (CAR logic reset) and modules that formerly used “global_rstn.” This reset is then sequenced into early, pre-boot, and boot versions for proper reset sequencing of the various downstream units. The CAR Center sequence is shown in the figure below.

Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.3 CAR Center System Reset Sequencing**
##### 9.1.2.1.4 Unit Level Reset Generation
Unit reset generation is performed locally in Orin, using the system reset interfaces distributed by the CAR Center and the AO CAR. These resets can be system resets or system resets combined with other local reset sources. These local reset sources include distributed software resets and hardware-driven power management sequencer resets. Software Reset Requests Unit-level software resets are fully software controlled, through SET and CLR register fields. This means that only an active-high reset source signal goes from the local CAR register module to the local CAR reset generation block. Unit-level software resets are used both for individual module- level reset control, as well as for power management sequencing in PG partitions that do not have hardware sequencing. The reset defaults of these software reset registers for PG partitions in the VDD_SOC domain must be with the resets deasserted (state is 1’b0 with the active high reset register polarity). This is so that the partition is powered up and out of reset during the cold boot sequences. This means power gating sequences must explicitly assert and deassert reset on PG exit.

Reset Functional Description Power Management Reset Requests When an IP block wakes from rail-gated or power-gated states (CCPLEX C6/C7 or CC6 states, for example), resets must be asserted upon wake. These are factored into the unit-level reset generation for those units. As previously mentioned, the sources of reset generation for IP-level Power Management sequences can be either hardware generated or software sequenced with CAR software reset registers. If a hardware reset sequencer does not exist, software reset registers must always be used. If software reset sequencing is used, there is a per-module mapping of software resets, rather than physically aware software resets. The software sequencing implementation must assert/deassert all of the individual software reset bits appropriately. AUX Clusters PMC and AO CAR handle the unit reset generation for the AO cluster. AO CAR takes Level 0 cold reset, Level 1 cold reset and Level 2 cold reset from PMC and generates the AO cluster unit resets. The MCCIF also uses the Level 2 warm reset since it needs to reset on SC7 with the MC. The L0 and L1 resets only have an "early" version, meaning no delay is necessary. The L0 reset is used for MSS AO, and asserts only on a SYS_RESET_N assertion. The L1 reset is used for the SPE WDT in AOTKE, the RTC (including AO WDT) and TSC, so that all continue to operate until a Level 0 or Level 1 reset source is asserted. The RTC and TSC units also do not use software resets so that they can be TrustZone secure. The sequencing of the early and preboot L2 resets use the early version of the Level 2 cold reset. The CAN and SPE units use the preboot Level 2 cold reset so that their RAMs can be repaired, if necessary, and taken out of shutdown. Additionally, the CAN instances have a fuse, opt_can_disable, that can be blown to hold both CAN instances in reset. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of four aon_cpu_clk cycles. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 1'b1. There is also a power gating reset sequencer that sequences the SPE and NIC resets upon exiting power gating states. There are two resets for the SPE, spe_pg3nsysporeset_rstn and spe_pg3nreset_rstn, and one for the NIC, nic_pg3earlyreset_rstn, as shown below. The separate resets for SPE are required to distinguish between the actual power gating mode and power gate emulation. You need to leave the DFD logic active during PG emulation, so the nRESET input must be used for a warm reset. However, there is some state that is only reset on nSYSPORESET, so when you actually remove power, you must assert nSYSPORESET. There can be one reset output from the state machine in the PG sequencer, it just needs to assert either nSYSPORESET or nRESET depending on the value of the pg_emulate control bit. As far as sequencing goes, the AO PM sends a rst_req when it wants the resets issued. A sequence similar to that used in PMC, is used where the rst_req results in a rst_ack (also inverted and used as the reset itself), which clears the rst_req once received in AO PM, which then clears the rst_ack/ reset. The only difference between the SPE and NIC reset sequences are outside of this unit, where the nSYSPORESET and nRESET go through reset extenders to ensure the assertion is four cycles wide.

Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.4 SPE Power Gating Resets**
The <module>reset_rstn resets have individual software control. The <module>sysreset*_rstn resets are pure system resets. Sensor Processing Engine (SPE) needs to be able to set up Cortex-R5 parameters in AO_PM and then issue its own self-clearing reset. This is done by triggering ao_swnreset_rst. Setting swr_swnreset_rst triggers the counter to start (which is to ensure the write response gets back to SPE). Once that programmable counter has expired, it sets the output reset. This eventually triggers nreset_aon_cpu_clk_srstn, which self-clears swr_swnreset_rst.
**Figure 9.5 SPE Software nRESET Generation**
The software resets for the SPE Cortex-R5 cluster can’t be asserted without ensuring that there are no outstanding AXI requests to SPE. If the resets are asserted with AXI requests pending, the Cortex-R5 cluster may hang. A system reset to clear the entire backbone is otherwise required. The recommended sequence to complete the self-reset and reboot is described below. Cortex-R5 software decides to reboot: 1. 2. Configure ATCM EVP registers with the address from where Cortex-R5 is to be rebooted Disable VIC interrupts (This ensures that Cortex-R5 does not come out of “quiescent” state while resetting is in process.) a. Configure “I” bit in the CPSR register to disable IRQ interrupts

Reset Functional Description b. Write VICINTENCLEAR register in AVIC AMAP space for VIC0 and VIC1. All the bits in this register needs to be “set to 1” so that all interrupts are disabled. However, there is a possible race condition while interrupts are disabled from the CPU; for example, an interrupt may be generated while the writeTXN to VICINTENCLEAR is in transit. It may clear the VICINTENCLEAR before ISR is activated. Therefore, the safest way to clear the interrupt is to do it from an ISR handler, preferably an FIQ handler. Software may trigger an FIQ handler using VIC’s “VICSOFTINT” register. (Refer to Section 3.3 in the PL192 reference manual for the VIC register descriptions.) c. 3. Configure the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_AON_SWR_RESET_CYCLE_COUNT_0 register in CAR with an initial value for the count down timer (This timer is used to delay the actual assertion of reset after the reset-request is received via CAR APB interface.) a. b. Timer ticks down on aon_apb_clk Configure the value depending on the time needed for the Cortex-R5 to reach the quiescent state after CAR reset request is issued (idle state reached by executing WFI/WFE instruction) 4. Write “1” to SWR_AON_NRESET_RST field in the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_AON_CPU_NIC register Execute “WFI” After reboot, software reconfigures some of the safety mechanisms when it gets disabled on Cortex-R5 reset.This includes re-enabling: 5. 6. a. b. Cortex-R5 Event bus by configuring X bit in PMCR register Cortex-R5 Cache ECC Other Safety mechanisms are not affected by Cortex-R5 self reset. Access via the Cortex-R5 AXI Slave port must not occur while Cortex-R5 is undergoing reset. If it happens, uncompleted transactions may occur to the Master who is accessing the Cortex-R5 slave port. But there is no hardware option to block the access to the Cortex-R5 Slave port. Software must ensure that no pending transaction to VIC is pending while the Cortex-R5 self-reset is in process. APE Cluster All of the APE Cluster resets are based on perip_rstn (equivalent to prebootl2warm_rstn) from CAR Center. It is combined with various unit software resets to generate the required unit resets for the cluster. APE also has a system reset for the NPG registers that must not be cleared when swr_ape_rst is set for PG sequencing. BPMP Cluster The BPMP CAR module handles the unit reset generation for the BPMP cluster. The Level 1 warm reset is used by the Timer block (TKE instance called u_tke) for the BPMP WDT, as well as by the

Reset Functional Description terminal node. The BPMP CAR module takes the Level 2 preboot and boot warm resets from CAR Center and generates the rest of the BPMP cluster unit resets. Most units use the preboot version of the Level 2 warm reset. The BPMP uses the Boot Level 2 warm reset to ensure that all other clusters are out of reset and halted and that other necessary units are ready for boot. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of five bpmp_clk cycles when used in lock-step mode. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 2'b10. The nRESET, PRESETDBGn and DBGRESETn inputs also need to be fully synchronized with nSYSPORESET as the synchronizer reset for lock-step mode. BPMP needs to be able to set up Cortex-R5 parameters in u_pm and then issue its own self- clearing reset. This is done by triggering bpmp_swnreset_rst. Setting swr_swnreset_rst triggers the counter to start (which is to ensure the write response gets back to BPMP). Once that programmable counter has expired, it sets the output reset. This eventually triggers nreset_bpmp_clk_srstn, which self-clears swr_swnreset_rst. RCE Cluster The RCE cluster reset generation is identical to the SCE Cluster resets. Replace "sce" in the reset names with "rce." SCE Cluster The SCE CAR module handles the unit reset generation for the SCE cluster. The Level 1 warm reset is used by the TKE block for the SCE WDT, as well as by the terminal node. The SCE CAR module takes the Level 2 early and preboot warm resets from CAR Center and generates the rest of the SCE cluster unit resets. Most units use the early version of the Level 2 warm reset. The SCE uses the preboot Level 2 warm reset so that its RAMs can be repaired, if necessary, and taken out of shutdown. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of five sce_clk cycles for lock-step mode. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 2'b10. The nRESET, PRESETDBGn, and DBGRESETn inputs also need to be fully synchronized with nSYSPORESET as the synchronizer reset for lock-step mode. The <module>reset_rstn resets have individual software control. The <module>sysreset*_rstn resets are pure system resets. There are specific requirements for the SCE Cortex-R5 wrapper that contains the Delay Lock-Step (DLS) logic wrapped around the redundant Cortex-R5 cores. This includes the requirement that nRESET assert any time nSYSPORESET and deasserts on the same cycle, as well as the requirement that the Cortex-R5 resets be fully synchronous.

Reset Functional Description CCPLEX There are two system-level resets, ccplex_scf_sysreset_rstn and ccplex_scf_l1sysreset_rstn, that come into CCPLEX from SoC to drive the main CCPLEX resets. These are the only SoC resets coming into CCPLEX from CAR Center. All other resets are generated internally by CCPLEX. There is a requirement that these resets be asserted for a minimum of 16 scf_clk cycles. This is achieved using a hardware assertion width extender. This reset extender must be instantiated inside of CCPLEX and does both the reset synchronization and extension. During SC7 wake, the clock is disabled until BPMP takes the IOBRICKs out of DPD and the CDB can properly distribute the clock. During cold boot, it was decided to also wait for BPMP to enable scf_clk, which means the reset deassertion coming out of the reset extender comes after BPMP boot has begun. This decision was made in order to make cold and warm boot as similar as possible.
**Figure 9.6 CCPLEX Reset and Hardware Reset Extender**
The CCPLEX reset inputs are early resets, just as CAR modules receive. The MCEs sequence the internal resets, and perform any necessary SRAM control sequencing, independent from the PMC FSM. The BPMP turns the clocks on in all cases, which means the clock is off until after L2 Boot Reset deasserts. This means fuse sense, strap sense and RAM Repair would all be complete before the output of the reset extender deasserts. The L1 reset, ccplex_scf_l1sysreset_rstn, has been added in the SoC for the SCF PG logic. When a CCPLEX Error Recovery Reset occurs (using an L2 WDT reset) some MCA state must be retained through the reset, so the virtual CPU rail should not be power gated. Since the PG logic uses this L1 warm reset, which does not assert during a CCPLEX Error Recovery Reset, the power gates are not enabled. Similarly, the CPU rail must not be powered off during an L2 reset event. To prevent any clock glitches during an Error Recovery Reset, CAR also sends car2ccplex_rstreq_clken (a version of pmc2car_rstreq_clken, to CCPLEX so that clocks may be gated prior to reset assertion.

Reset Functional Description iGPU There is one reset coming into the iGPU cluster, gpurstn. The iGPU-specific reset, gpurstn, is generated by ANDing the Preboot L2 Warm reset with a iGPU software reset. It is synchronized to the different clock domains. Similar to CCPLEX, the sub-module level reset generation is done internal to the iGPU cluster. This includes generation of individual sub-module level software reset control.
**Figure 9.7 iGPU Reset Generation**
Unlike other clusters/modules, iGPU primarily uses fully synchronous resets (both asserting and deasserting edges are synchronized). Exceptions to this would include the PMU submodule and portions of the FBP submodule. This is to help enable the finer granularity of reset control, so an upstream module can be reset without impacting a downstream module. With asynchronous assertion, you could reset the upstream module and the output of that module to a downstream module changes asynchronously, breaking setup/hold on the downstream flop. HSIO Cluster Refer to the High-Speed I/O chapter for HSIO reset details. LSIO Cluster Refer to the Low-Speed I/O chapter for LSIO reset details. MMPLEX NVCSI_CIL NVCSI clocking consists of clocking for four NVCSI_CIL interfaces for CPHY 1.2 and DPHY 1.2 rates. The SoC also supports CPHY 1.2 speeds of 4.5GS/sec. CV Cluster The CV cluster consists of one PVA cluster and two DLA instances. In addition to the CV cluster resets, the SoC contains a POD reset.

Reset Programming Guidelines PVA Cluster The PVA cluster uses Preboot L2 Warm reset for the Cortex-R5 resets and Early L2 Warm Reset for the majority of non-R5 modules. MSS MSSNVL_HSH MSS shim logic is used to interface to iGPU. Before resetting iGPU, software is required to set up bit in MSS logic to ensure that transactions are completely drained.
#### 9.1.2.2 Reset Programming Guidelines
##### 9.1.2.2.1 Boot Software
Boot ROM and MB1 need to access various reset related registers. To determine what reset source requested the previous reset and at what reset source level, a read is required to the PMC_IMPL_RST_STATUS_0 register by Boot ROM. During each boot, MB1 then needs to configure the CNTVAL counts for deassertion of system resets, by writing the values for each category of system reset to the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CNTVAL_0 register. CNTVAL determines how long after the reset request is dropped the Reset FSM is held asserted prior to deasserting. Refer to the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CNTVAL_0 register table in the PMC chapter for details. If external reset requests are required for any categories of system reset, they must be programmed at each boot. If the PMIC does not support sideband reset requests, a scratch register must be written by MB1 to indicate I2C commands should be executed on boot. If the PMIC does support sideband reset requests, the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CONFIG_0 register must be written (the associated I2C command scratch registers must also be populated). Any units that need to be brought out of reset by Boot ROM and MB1 (through the deassertion of their software reset) requires a write of 1’b1 to each field of the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers.
##### 9.1.2.2.2 Issuing a Software Main Reset
To issue a software main reset, the secure BPMP firmware must write a 1’b1 to the PMC_IMPL_CNTRL_0.MAIN_RST field. This is a self-clearing reset (since the reset is a system reset and it clears out the firmware that initially requested it), so no additional writes are required to deassert it. Set ALL Lane RX IDDQ, TX IDDQ and SLEEP 1. Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses a. b.

Reset Programming Guidelines c. Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses d. 2. Deassert ALL PLL ENABLE a. Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for All PLLs’ Base addresses 3. Assert ALL PLL IDDQ and SLEEP a. b. Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.IDDQ = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses 4. (Optional) Assert UPHY Master Reset a. Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_RST = 1 5. Set PMC_IMPL_CNTRL_0.MAIN_RST = 1
##### 9.1.2.2.3 Issuing a CAR Unit Software Reset
Any time the secure BPMP firmware wants to issue a unit reset through the CAR software reset registers, a sequence using the *_SET_0 and *_CLR_0 registers must be used. To assert the reset, a 1’b1 must be written to all desired fields via BPMP-FW clock services in the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_SET_0 registers. To subsequently deassert the reset, a 1’b1 must be written to all desired fields in the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers. To check the reset status at any time during the sequence, read the desired fields in the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers. Issuing CAR Software Resets for the HSIO and NVHS UPHY In order to avoid damage to the UPHY instances, software must ensure that the sequences in this section are followed when asserting the UPHY CAR software Resets. Asserting a UPHY Lane Software Reset 1. Set Lane N Rx IDDQ, Tx IDDQ and SLEEP a. b. Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for Lane N’s Base address Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for Lane N’s Base address Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for Lane N’s Base address Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for Lane N’s Base address c. d. 2. Assert the Lane N CAR Software Lane Reset a. Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_Ln_RST =1 Asserting a UPHY PLL Software Reset This is assuming Lanes slaved to the PLL are already OFF. 1. Deassert PLL N ENABLE a. Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for PLL N Base address

Reset Programming Guidelines 2. Assert PLL N IDDQ and SLEEP a. b. Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for PLL N Base address Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 1 for PLL N Base address 3. Assert PLL N CAR Software PLL Reset a. Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_PLLn_RST = 1 Asserting a UPHY Master Software Reset 1. Set ALL Lane Rx IDDQ, Tx IDDQ and SLEEP a. b. Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses c. d. 2. Deassert ALL PLL ENABLE a. Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for All PLLs’ Base addresses 3. Assert ALL PLL IDDQ and SLEEP a. b. Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.IDDQ = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses 4. Assert UPHY CAR software Master Reset a. Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_RST =1 Save/Restore of Software Resets When entering a power state where reset status can be lost, the status of all the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers can be saved. This is done so that upon exiting the specific power state, the reset status of all modules are restored by writing those saved values to the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers. This is the only use case where the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers must be written directly, as opposed to the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_SET_0 and CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers. Accessing CV and IOVDD Rail Registers Because of CAR’s distributed clock and reset distribution strategy, some of the CAR-related register pages end up residing in the VDD_CV and VDD_NVHS rails. To access these registers, the related CAR module must be out of reset, so the related rail software resets need to be deasserted first. IOVDD Rail Registers There is an IOVDD rail software reset that must be deasserted during rail power-up sequencing. This reset is located at CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVHS_RAIL<_SET/

Reset Programming Guidelines _CLR>_0.SWR_NVHS_RAIL_RST. This reset must be deasserted prior to accessing the following register pages: GPIO_CTL0 NVHS_UPHY PLLNVHS PEX1 NVLINK_CORE ERR_COLLATOR_11 ERR_COLLATOR_40 CV Rail Registers There are CV rail software resets that must be deasserted during rail power-up sequencing. These resets are located at CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_CV<_SET/_CLR>_0. There are three fields present, SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST, SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST and SWR_PREBOOTL2_WARM_RST to give software the flexibility to deassert these all together or sequence them similarly to how hardware would for other Cortex-R5 clusters like the BPMP. At a minimum, the SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST deassertion would give access to registers on the CV rail. However, there are two ways to sequence these resets in a valid manner when bringing up the rail. 1. Deassert SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST and SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RESET together first. Then deassert SWR_PREBOOTL2_WARM_RST second. Deassert all three together in one software write. 2. In either case, deasserting both the SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST and the SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST are done prior to attempting any CAR register accesses (all three should be done if access is required to the entire cluster’s register space). The following CAR register pages are located on the CV rail: ADC_CV CVNAS DLA0 DLA1 PLLCV PLLCV2 PLLCV3 AVFS_15 AVFS_16 AVFS_17 AVFS_18

Clock Controller AVFS_21 PVA0 PVA1 ERR_COLLATOR_15 ERR_COLLATOR_16 ERR_COLLATOR_17 ERR_COLLATOR_18
### 9.1.3 Clock Controller
The clocking logic makes use of the following to provide the various clocks in the system, including the frequency of operation, clock quality, spread, and clock gating. Sources capable of generating frequencies independently or based on a reference clock – External oscillators, Phase-Locked Loops (PLLs), and Noise-Aware Frequency Locked Loops (NAFLLs). Clock manipulation elements – switches, dividers, gates, skippers, trimmers, shapers, etc. The controls for these elements are present in the clock controller module. These controls may need to be sequenced in an appropriate manner to ensure that there are no glitches or other clock artifacts in the system. Key features include the following: Clock generation for all functional blocks. Register parity for clock configuration registers. LUT RAM parity for certain NAFLL LUTs. Clock Monitoring for certain clocks. Refer to the Safety Manual for details of the safety applications of the last three bullets.
#### 9.1.3.1 Clock Controller Functional Description
##### 9.1.3.1.1 Clock Inputs
Crystal Oscillator Input The SoC has a dedicated 38.4 MHz XTAL OSC input. All SoC core PLLs have the option of using a version of the OSC clock, osc_div_clk, as a reference. This has a divider, but the divider is always set to 1, so osc_div_clk is always 38.4 MHz. Some PLLs may also use another PLL output as a clock reference, or an external reference clock input. The OSC clock source most commonly (but not

Clock Controller Functional Description exclusively) used by the various clock muxes and switch-dividers is clk_m_sys_clk. This is a divided version of OSC. The reset default of the divider is DIV1, but then boot software sets the divider value to DIV2, so that clk_m_sys_clk is 19.2 MHz. AO modules use ao_clk_m, which is undivided.
**Figure 9.8 OSC Clocks**
Drive strength settings for the OSC pad cannot be changed during operation, as changing those settings causes the output of the OSC pad to glitch. The settings are used as the clock reference for the majority of the PLLs on the chip, therefore changing the drive strength setting must not occur. FSI_XTAL Clock Input The SoC has a dedicated 40 MHz XTAL input for the safety island. The FSI_XTAL clock source is used directly to drive the FSI PLL. Additionally, it sources different units such as FSI CAN and FSI GPIO directly. 32K Clock The 32K clock is a 32,768 Hz clock input, provided by the PMIC. All references to 32K in the context of this clock represent this frequency, and can be interpreted as 32 KiHz, or (32 x 1024) Hz. This clock is used in PMC for various features, including reset generation, as well as by TSC and RTC as a timing reference. It is also available as a very low-speed clock source for various units during SC7, when most, if not all other clock sources have been powered down. In most places, this clock is referred to as clk_s_sys_clk.
**Figure 9.9 32K Clocks**

Clock Controller Functional Description Interface Clock Inputs The SoC has various clock inputs specific to certain interfaces, which are taken as inputs from the platform (often the device at the other end of the interface). They are used to generate some or all of the internal clocks associated with that interface. HSIO UPHY Reference Clock Input The HSIO UPHY has four differential reference clock pair inputs used as reference clocks for UPHY Brick PLLs. These 100 MHz inputs are used for PCIe endpoint mode. Clock Name Frequency Usage PEX_REFCLK0P/N 100 MHz PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL0 PEX_REFCLK1P/N 100 MHz PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL1 PEX_REFCLK2P/N 100 MHz PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL2 PEX_REFCLK3P/N 100 MHz PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL3 NVHS UPHY Reference Clock Input The NVHS UPHY has two differential reference clock pair input used as a reference clock for the UPHY Brick PLLs, one each for up to two controllers. This input can be used with all supported protocols of the NVHS UPHY. These 100 MHz inputs are used for PCIe endpoint mode. Clock Name Frequency Usage NVHS0_REFCLK0_P/N 100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode NVHS0_REFCLK1_P/N 100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode GbE UPHY Reference Clock Input The GbE UPHY has three differential reference clock pair input used as a reference clock inputs for GbE or PCIe interfaces. Clock Name Frequency Usage UPHY2__REFCLK0_P/N 100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode UPHY2__REFCLK1_P/N 100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode UPHY2__REFCLK2_P/N 100 MHz or 156.25 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode, 156.25 MHz if MGBE refernce is platform sourced. MIPI CSI Clock Inputs The CSI Bricks receive one clock input per two data pairs. In DPHY mode, these clocks are used to receive the data and are used to derive the brick-sourced clocks for the NVCSI_CIL. In CPHY mode, the clock is recovered from the data.

Clock Controller Functional Description Clock Name Frequency Usage CSI_A_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. CSI_B_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. CSI_C_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. CSI_D_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. CSI_E_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. CSI_F_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. CSI_G_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. CSI_H_CLK_P/N Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock. Reference Clock Outputs Generic Reference Output Clocks in Platform Orin, as the application processor in platforms, has clock outputs that are used as the reference clock for various platform components in the system. The various platform components that typically source a reference clock from the SoC include camera sensors, touch controllers, and audio CODEC chips. For supporting the clock generation for the same, there are four generic clock switches, AUD_MCLK and TOUCH_CLK whose clock outputs are routed to various pads allocated for reference clock out in the system through pinmux. Interface Reference Clock Outputs UFS Device Reference Clock UFS devices have strict clock quality requirements. A 19.2 MHz reference clock for the UFS device is generated from the 38.4 MHz OSC reference clock. This is done by selecting the default of clk_m_sys_clk as the clock source and the default divider of 1. Clock Name Frequency Usage UFSDEV_REF_CLK
## 19.2 MHz or 38.4 MHz
UFS reference clock. PCIe Reference Clock Outputs The HSIO PCIe controllers have one differential reference clock pair output per controller used as a reference clock for the endpoint associated with that controller. This is a 100 MHz output used for PCIe root mode and is driven out of the SoC by a separate pad and not the HSIO UPHY itself. Clock Name Frequency Usage Reference clock output pad options PEX_CLK0P/N 100 MHz PCIe C0 root mode reference clock output. BOPEXCLK brick0 associated with PCIE controllers mapped to HSIO UPHY.

Clock Controller Functional Description Clock Name Frequency Usage Reference clock output pad options PEX_CLK1P/N 100 MHz PCIe C1 root mode reference clock output. Same as above PEX_CLK2P/N 100 MHz PCIe C2 root mode reference clock output. Same as above PEX_CLK3P/N 100 MHz PCIe C3 root mode reference clock output. BOPEXCLK brick1 associated with PCIE controllers mapped to HSIO UPHY. PEX_CLK4P/N 100 MHz PCIe C4 root mode reference clock output. Same as above PEX_CLK5P/N 100 MHz PCIe C5 root mode reference clock output. BOPEXCLK brick2 associated with PCIE controllers mapped to NVHS UPHY. PEX_CLK6P/N 100 MHz PCIe C6 root mode reference clock output. Same as above PEX_CLK7P/N 100 MHz PCIe C7 root mode reference clock output. BOPEXCLK brick3 associated with PCIE controllers mapped to GBE UPHY. PEX_CLK8P/N 100 MHz PCIe C8 root mode reference clock output. Same as above PEX_CLK9P/N 100 MHz PCIe C9 root mode reference clock output. Same as above PEX_CLK10P/N 100 MHz PCIe C10 root mode reference clock output. BOPEXCLK brick4 associated with PCIE controllers mapped to GBE UPHY.
##### 9.1.3.1.2 Auxiliary Processor Cluster Clocking
Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters All the Cortex-R5 subsystems have a hardware sequencer which has the ability to control the clock source and clock switch for the Cortex-R5 and the backbone in the cluster based on the hardware state of the cluster. Refer to the Always-On Cluster (AON) and SPE chapter more details. There is an interface with the Cortex-R5 modules PM block. Jumping to the appropriate frequency and turning off the clock sources that are not in use are possible using this sequencer. This is specifically useful in the AON subsystem when the BPMP (which controls the clocks and resets) is turned OFF. The AON Sequencer captures the details of sequencer programming model and different configurations. If the sequencer is configured to control the NAFLL, then re-enabling NAFLL in BPMP/SCE/RCE clusters when Cortex-R5 is coming out of WFI state could lead to hang. If the NDIV is too low for the given voltage, NAFLL never asserts lock and Cortex-R5 PM hangs. To avoid the hang, use a programmable delay for the NAFLL lock to be asserted using the alternate configuration #5. Software can choose to put NAFLL under software control and not put it in a low power state (IDDQ or Disabled Mode) by using the alternative configuration #3.

Clock Controller Functional Description BPMP Cluster Clocking BPMP clocks are required for the Cortex-R5 and cluster used for Boot and Power Management. There is a primary first level clock for the Cortex-R5 subsystem and there is a ratio synchronous clocks in the system for running the NIC. Other components like the CVC run on this BPMP-NIC clock. The primary clock for BPMP during the boot process is PLLP and the BPMP processor is started at the oscillator clock and transitions over to PLLP as early as possible in the flow. During the regular operation of the BPMP, AVFS-NAFLL is the source that follows the frequency scaling requirements for the processor as close to optimally as possible. The BPMP-fabric clock in the cluster is the ratio version of this clock. There is an independent APB clock that is also generated for this cluster and is sourced from PLLP for the most of the time. There are also first-level clocks generated for various subsystems in the BPMP cluster (ACTMON, SIMON, tsensor, soc_therm). Some of these clocks also become global clocks used in other clusters/chiplets as well. All these clocks are sourced from PLLP/OSC depending on the use-case. There is a switch divider which generates the bpmp_cpu_clk. This is used as a clock source for Cortex-R5. The clock used for the BPMP fabric is a derived version of the bpmp_cpu_clock and is called bpmp_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. bpmp_nic_clk is also used to clock the BPMP-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the bpmp_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure. A second switch divider generates the bpmp_apb_clk. The clocking registers are arranged in a BPMP PAGE with the SUBPAGE for the group of registers for clocking structure called BPMP_CPU_NIC, SUBPAGE BPMP_APB, SUBPAGE for the sequencer related registers called the BPMP_SEQUENCER, subpage for the dedicated NAFLL, subpage for the common HPLL called PLLBPMPCAM, subpage for the ACTMON registers called ACTMON, SUBPAGE for SoC Therm related registers called SOC_THERM, SUBPAGE for the thermal sensors called TSENSOR, and a SUBPAGE for the monitor IP called SIMON. The hardware sequencer in BPMP reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the bpmp_cpu_clk, bpmp_nic_clk and the bpmp_apb_clk. SCE Cluster Clocking The SCE provides a set of hardware features to function as the safety processor for functional safety applications. The cluster consists of two Cortex-R5 processor cores with a tightly coupled RAM, support peripherals (e.g. timers, interrupt controller), and routing logic. The SCE does not support operating each Cortex-R5 independently. There is a dedicated NAFLL for SCE which is the primary source. There is also a single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE called PLLBPMPCAM. This is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the sce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the SCE NoC is a derived version of the sce_cpu_clock and is called sce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. Sce_nic_clk is also

Clock Controller Functional Description used to clock the SCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the sce_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure. The hardware sequencer in SCE reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the sce_cpu_clk and sce_nic_clk. AON Cluster Clocking Similar to the BPMP, the SPE’s Cortex-R5 also has the oscillator clock as the default. The AON subsystem is also capable of turning OFF the oscillator in SC7 use-cases where there is no work pending for the SPE for saving more power. On a wake, the oscillator is turned ON and based on the type of wake, SPE might need to run clocks in the cluster at a higher frequency. The AON PLL can be activated when VDD_SOC is OFF. AON PLL is also used for catering to the SPE and cluster I/Os in the ultra-low power use-cases. Apart from the Cortex-R5 core clock, there are a number of I/O controllers that need to be clocked either from AONPLL or OSC in the AON use-cases. PLLP is also present as a back up source in use-cases where the VDD_SOC power is ON. CAN, I2C, touch controller, PWM, etc., are examples of these I/O controllers. There is a switch divider which generates the aon_cpu_clk. This is used as a clock source for the Cortex-R5. The clock used for the AON NoC is a derived version of the aon_cpu_clock and is called aon_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. aon_nic_clk is also used to clock the AON- DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the aon_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure. A second switch divider generates the aon_apb_clk. AON NoC clocks should never be disabled as AON CAR registers are behind AON NOC. Disabling AON NoC clocks can lead to deadlock and system hang. The hardware sequencer in AON reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and the aon_apb_clk. APE Clocking The Audio Processing Engine (APE) provides all the audio needs of the SoC. APE contains an audio DSP (ADSP), an internal RAM, and a AHUB containing hardware accelerators and a DMA engine. Refer to the Audio Processing Engine (APE) chapter for details on APE clocking. RCE Clocking The SoC has a dedicated CPU core for real time and ADAS requirements from the camera. The RCE cluster is an exact reuse of the SCE cluster, port by port, and module by module. Consequently, the clocking is exactly similar to SCE clocking. The primary source is a dedicated NAFLL for SCE with a

Clock Controller Functional Description single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE called PLLBPMPCAM. The backup HPLL is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the rce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the RCE NOC is a derived version of the rce_cpu_clock and is called rce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. rce_nic_clk is also used to clock the RCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the rce_aclken signal generated. The hardware sequencer in RCE reuses the same hardware sequencer described in the Hardware Sequencer section in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the rce_cpu_clk and rce_nic_clk. DCE Clocking The DCE cluster is an exact reuse of the RCE cluster, port by port, and module by module. Consequently, the clocking is exactly similar to RCE clocking. The primary source is a dedicated NAFLL for DCE with a single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE/DCE called PLLBPMPCAM. The backup HPLL is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the dce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the DCE NOC is a derived version of the dce_cpu_clock and is called dce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. dce_nic_clk is also used to clock the RCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the dce_aclken signal generated. AOVC/PM/PMC/SOC_THERM/CVC/HSP/HSM Clocking These modules are almost always clocked by the corresponding cluster backbone clock or the oscillator or 32-kHz clock.
##### 9.1.3.1.3 High-Speed I/O (HSIO) Cluster Clocking
UPHY Clocking There are three UPHY instances: 1. HSIO UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY capable of supporting various combinations of PCIe, USB 3.1, UFS, and HSSTP controllers. NVHS UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY supporting a mixture of PCIe controllers. GBE UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY supporting a mixture of PCIe and 10G Ethernet controllers. 2. 3. HSIO UPHY HSIO UPHY Clocking The HSIO UPHY can be driven by various combinations of PCIe, XUSB, UFS, and HSSTP controllers mapped onto its 8 lanes. There is a 1:1 mapping of PIPE2UPHY instances to UPHY lanes, so the PCIe controller mappings are actually done at the controller to PIPE2UPHY boundary. For a detailed

Clock Controller Functional Description diagram of the controller to HSIO UPHY Lane mapping, refer to the Block Diagram in the HSIO chapter. All of the PLLs use the output of PLLE for usage with PCIe, and XUSB. In addition, PLL3 requires OSC as a reference for UFS/MPHY mode. It is the only PLL requiring OSC as a reference, since only PLL3 can be sourced for L10 and/or L11 in MPHY mode. REFPLLE has been removed as a reference for PLL3, due to the usage of OSC in MPHY mode, when REFPLLE is set to 62.5 MHz for EQOS. PLL1 also has PLL_NVHS as a reference for IST modes where the NVHS UPHY is used in PCIe mode to connect to a dGPU. This UPHY has four I/O PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by either the PLL on its left or the PLL on its right, depending on which controller it is associated with. HSIO UPHY PLLs and Lane Usage HSIO UPHY Lane Clock Generation Per-controller clocks must be generated for each of the PCIe, XUSB, MPHY, and HSSTP controllers. This is done in the HSIO Link Macros for each controller. These Link Macros MUX between the relevant UPHY PLL *_txclkref outputs, based on the lane and PLL mapping to create the controller Tx clocks. These Link Macros also divide and gate the clocks, as needed, for generating the controller’s clocks. Per-lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further Tx clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros. NVHS UPHY NVHS UPHY Clocking The NVHS UPHY can be driven by a mixture of PCIe controllers mapped onto its eight lanes. This UPHY has two IO PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by either PLL on either end of the PHY, depending on which controller it is associated with. There are two outputs of PLLNVHS used, one for each IOPLL in NVHS UPHY. The PLLs are configured to 100 MHz in functional mode. PLL1 can be configured to 150 MHz for DFT modes. PLL_NVHS cannot generate the ideal 156.25 MHz for GBE mode without using fractional division, which will increase jitter and could reduce link performance. There is also the option to use

Clock Controller Functional Description an external oscillator on the PCB, connected to the NVHS UPHY EXT_REFCLKP/N differential reference clock inputs. This is used for PCIe Endpoint Mode Controllers. NVHS UPHY PLL Location and Lane Usage NVHS UPHY Controller and Lane Clock Generation CAR clock macros are needed to generate the various Tx and Rx clocks for the NVHS UPHY and associated controllers. For Tx clocks, there are per controller link macros for the NVHS UPHY, similar to HSIO UPHY. This selects between the two IO PLL TXCLKREF inputs and includes clock generation specific to the requirements of each controller. This includes a Link Macro for PCIe C5 and PCIe C6 clocks. Per- lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further TX clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros. The Lane clock macros are also used for the per-lane Rx clock generation. GBE UPHY GBE UPHY Clocking The GBE UPHY can be driven by a mixture of 10G Ethernet and PCIE controllers mapped onto its eight lanes. This UPHY has three IO PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by the PLL to its left or its right, depending on which controller it is associated with. GBE UPHY PLL Location and Lane Usage GBE UPHY Controller and Lane Clock Generation CAR clock macros are needed to generate the various Tx and Rx clocks for the GBE UPHY and associated controllers.

Clock Controller Functional Description For Tx clocks, there are per controller link macros for the GBE UPHY, similar to HSIO UPHY. This selects between the three IO PLL TXCLKREF inputs and includes clock generation specific to the requirements of each controller. This includes a Link Macro for GBE, PCIe C7, PCIe C8, PCIe C9 and PCIe C10. Per-lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further Tx clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros. The Lane clock macros are also used for the per-lane Rx clock generation. PIPE2UPHY Clocking The PIPE2UPHY (P2U) modules connect the Synopsys DesignWare PCIe controllers to the NVIDIA UPHY. The P2U interfaces the MAC layer of the PCIe controller to the UPHY brick, because NVIDIA’s UPHY does not follow the PIPE interface. There is one P2U module per lane of UPHY brick. PCIe Clocking There are 11 Synopsys DesignWare Gen1 – Gen4 controllers instantiated in Orin. These controllers are mapped across three different UPHY instances, the HSIO UPHY, NVHS UPHY and GBE UPHY. For each UPHY, a PCIE XBAR connects the associated controllers to the per-lane P2U (PIPE2UPHY) modules. PCIe Controller PIPE and CORE Clocks The PCIe PIPE clock transfers data from the Core to P2U. PIPE clock is equal to the Tx clock in frequency, but is treated asynchronously. The PCIe CORE clock is ratio synchronous to the PIPE clock, with a fixed ratio of ½. PCIe Reference Clocks Each controller requires a PCIe Reference clock output pair, which is driven out of the AP in root port mode. This reference clock should be a nominal 100 MHz and sourced from either PLLE (C0 – C4) or PLLNVHS (C5 or C6) or PLL_GBE (C7 – C10). PCIe Controller Miscellaneous Clocking There are several other clocks that the PCIe controllers require: One apbclk input per controller Hardware Clock Control in PCIe L1/L1SS States The CORE clock must be gated when the link enters into the L1/L1SS low power states. The CORE AUX clock must switch dynamically to OSC clock when the link enters these power states. The request to do this comes from the core. Dynamic Rate Change Support for PCIe Controllers The PCIe link is initialized to Gen1 by software. The link can then change rate between Gen1, Gen2, Gen3, and Gen4 dynamically. CAR must switch the Tx, PIPE, and CORE clocks to the new required

Clock Controller Functional Description frequencies in a glitch-free manner. The request and new link speed are provided by the associated P2U. Once CAR switches the frequency, it must provide an ACK back to P2U. If a frequency change request is made for a controller that is able to source two UPHY PLLs, then this would only involve sequencing mux select changes in the Link Macro. This is common in HSIO UPHY configurations where all of the controllers are root ports and the PLLs would be configured such that each controller could select between 10 GHz (for Gen1/Gen2) and 16 GHz (for Gen3/ Gen4) PLL TXCLKREF outputs. If a frequency change request is made for a controller that has only one possible UPHY PLL source, then this would involve changing the UPHY PLL frequency between 10 GHz and 16 GHz. This would be common for PCIe C5 (NVHS UPHY) or HSIO UPHY configurations where endpoint mode controllers are present (this ends up tying PLLs exclusively to different controllers). PCIe Clocking There are 11 Synopsys DesignWare Gen1 – Gen4 controllers instantiated in Orin. These controllers are mapped across three different UPHY instances: HSIO UPHY, NVHS UPHY and GBE UPHY. For each UPHY, a PCIe XBAR connects the associated controllers to the per-lane P2U (PIPE2UPHY) modules. XUSB Core Clocking The XUSB lanes are mapped to specific HSIO lanes. Each of those lanes can use one of two PLLs. The XUSB Link Macros have the MUXing to select between PLL sources possible for each controller. If a lane is in XUSB mode, its HSIO Lane Macro selects that XUSB source from the Link Macro and the Lane Macro provides the appropriate Tx and Rx clocks for the XUSB controller. UFS/MPHY Clocking The UFSHC (Universal Flash Storage Host Controller) adapts MPHY as the physical layer. There are clock gating changes for the uphy_hsio_pll3_mgmt_clk in the brick. This clock should not be gated in hardware based on PLL3 power down indication from CAR. Either MPHY lane can be used for an X1 MPHY (the PLL3 TXREFCLK now goes to both lanes). The UFSHC controller adapts MPHY as the physical layer. The reference clock for the PLL3 for MPHY can be oscillator while the controller can run of the REFPLLE running at 625 MHz. The brick PLL for MPHY (i.e., PLL3) generates the interface clocks and the geared ratios for running the symbol clock, bit clocks are generated using divider switch structure. ALL MPHY Core clocks are generated from REFPLLE and the Tx SYMBOL Clock is generated from either REFPLLE or UPHY BRICK PLL3. The Tx and Rx clocks shown in above diagram are forwarded to the UFS controller. Both the ufshc_cg_sysclk and ufsdev_ref_clk are clock gated. Note: the clock gates controlled by CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_UFS_0 register. MPHY and CAR Interaction

Clock Controller Functional Description MPHY Tx/Rx clocks can be switched to change source or frequency based on the Mode and Gear of the Operation that MPHY negotiates with the link. These controls come from the MPHY IP directly. A Req and Ack mechanism is used to synchronize the CAR and IP during clock change. MPHY issues a clock change request by toggling the REQ and Waits for CAR to change the ACK. Once CAR completes the clock change it toggles the ACK. From MPHY Specification, the time required for clock change from one mode/gear to another should be less than 10 µs. The CAR state machines guarantees a 5 µs latency. HSSTP Clocking The HSSTP controller takes in the global csite_clk and the Tx clocks for the various lanes (0, 1, 4, and 5) that can be configured as HSSTP. The supported combinations only use up to two lanes at a time (0 and 1 together, otherwise always individual lanes). The clocks are mesochronous, as all four lane clocks are sourced from the same HSSTP Link Clock Macro when HSSTP is selected for that lane. MGBE Clocking The GBE lanes are mapped to lanes 4 – 7 of the GBE UPHY. Each of those lanes only use PLL2 for their Tx clocking. The GBE Link Macros take in the PLL2 TXCLKREF (644.53125 MHz) to generate the gated Tx clocks (divide-by-two). If a lane is in GBE mode, its GBE UPHY Lane Macro will select that GBE clock source from the Link Macro and the Lane Macro provides the appropriate Tx and Rx clocks for the GBE controller. Additionally, the GBE Link Macro will generate the Tx and Rx PCS clocks and the MAC clock from UPHY references, and other required GBE controller clocks. iGPU Clocking The IST clock, ist_clk, is a global test clock for IST mode. It is generated from either clk_m_sys_clk or PLLP, with a maximum frequency of PLLP/2 (204 MHz). iGPU uses an NVLink-based data plane for the iGPU. This HSHUB sub-block in iGPU operates entirely on the iGPU’s SYSCLK domain. There is a shim outside of the iGPU, provided by MSS as part of the MSSNVL_HSH, which has the CDC between the SYSCLK domain and the emchub_clk domain, as well as the voltage domain crossing from VDD_GPU to VDD_SOC. Because of this, iGPU needs to provide clock outputs for CAR to generate the final SYSCLK.
##### 9.1.3.1.4 Low-Speed I/O (LSIO) Clocking
For all LSIO units except CAN, the Clock enable registers from the CAR address space are used for distributed SLCG gating of pclk branches. QSPI Clocking The SoC supports two QSPI controllers. Each controller drives a single x4 QSPI port independently and combined together effectively results in 2x bandwidth, i.e., 200 MB/s total bandwidth.

Clock Controller Functional Description Partitioned payloads are flashed in two discrete x4 QSPI flashes or two x4 QSPI flashes on a single die. Each QSPI unit has qspi_2x_pm_clk and qspi_pm_clk as inputs. For hitting the target frequency the PLLC4 clock (muxed and gated) is routed to the QSPI clock switch. Also, HPLLs have been added as a QSPI clocking source to decouple the clock sources for SDMMC and QSPI which shares the same PLLC4. SDMMC Clocking Analog PLLC4 is the source for the SDMMC controllers. SDMMC4 controller is used as an eMMC5.1 device (embedded flash memory). The EMMC bricks are placed close to the SDMMC4 clock switch/ PLLC4 for optimizing the clock insertion delay to the brick. The insertion delay leads to duty cycle issues at lower voltages. The PLL output (PDIV version-CLKOUT) can directly be used to clock the eMMC brick. The glitchless switch from the bypass branch to the PLL derived clock is taken care of by a state machine similar to the EMC clock switch state machine. The software switch sequence is similar to any other clock switch. State machine is only for PLLC4 hardware sequencing for glitchless switch. There is no handshake requirement with EMMC controller for the switch itself. Software override for PLL_BYPASS control is also present. The additional programming required to bring the sdmmc4 clock up is to bring PLLC4 out of IDDQ since the bypass clock does not propagate through the PLLC4 in IDDQ mode. SDMMC1 clocks can be sourced from the PLLC4 sources like VCO/2, VCO/3 or VCO/5. The *_legacy_tm_r clock for all the SDMMC controllers are sourced from a common clock switch divider. The bypass branch to the PLLC4 is from a special SDMMC switch divider. Selecting 001 (pllc4_out2_lj = VCO/5), 010 (pllc4_out0_lj = VCO), and 101 (pllc4_out1_lj = VCO/3) bypasses the internal divider in the clock switch. Alternatively, divided and gated versions of VCO/5, VCO, VCO/3, PLLP and clk_m can be selected as sources. All clock gates in this switch are controlled by software using the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SDMMC4_0 register. The CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SDMMC4_0 register is used to select the clock source and divider value. Selecting any of these clock sources other than pllc4_out0_lj (010) automatically puts the PLL into BYPASS mode via a hardware FSM. If pllc4_out0_lj is selected, it does not use the bypass path and the CLKOUT output of PLLC4 is driven by the main VCO / PDIV path (the lowest jitter path possible). Alternatively, the PLLC4_BYPASS may be controlled by software (i.e., the hardware FSM may be overridden if CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_PLLC4_MISC1_0. PLLC4_ENABLE_SW_OVERRIDE is set to 1. To gate the SDMMC4 clocks, one of the bypass path clocks (any except pllc4_out0_lj) must be selected, as the only clock gate is in the bypassclk switch-divider. Ethernet QOS (EQOS) Clocking ETHER_QOS is an Ethernet controller that has following clock domains: Tx Clock

Clock Controller Functional Description Rx Clock PTP Clock CSR Clock or APB clock (used for APB4 slave interface) Application Clock (used for AXI4 system memory interface) There are tracking requirements for audio codec clocks based on EQOS sync points. Software changes fractional NDIV of PLLA. EQOS needs a 125 MHz clock with duty cycle close to 50-50 for meeting interface requirements of GiG Ethernet. This is sourced from refPLLE in the system which can run at 625 MHz. The Rx clock for EQOS is from the interface and the APB interface clock from the system backbone is also used in the unit. eqos_loopback_enable can be configured by IP software by programming the register ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0 (which is in ether_qos register space). The EQOS IP has an internal divider to derive the eqos_gmii_mdc (management data clock). UART Clocking There are seven UART instances in LSIO Cluster and two UART instances in AON Cluster. UART has three clock inputs. UART instances in LSIO Cluster have uart*_r_clk, uart_fst_mipi_cal_r_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk clock as their clock inputs. Similarly, UART instances in AON Cluster have uart*_r_clk, aon_uart_fst_mipi_cal_r_clk and aon_apb_clk. I2C Clocking There are seven I2C instances in LSIO Cluster, two I2C instances in AON Cluster and two I2C instances in PSC. I2C has three clock inputs. I2C instances in LSIO Cluster have i2c*_r_clk, i2c_slow_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk clock as its clock inputs. Similarly, I2C instances in AON Cluster have i2c*_r_clk, aon_i2_slow_clk and aon_apb_clk. I2c_slow clock connects to all the I2C instances in LSIO Cluster. Similarly, aon_i2c_slow clock connects to all the I2C instances in AON Cluster. TACH Clocking There are two instance of TACH. It has two clock inputs. They are tach_r_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk. SPI Clocking There are four instances of SPI in the LSIO cluster and one instance of SPI in the AON cluster. SPI has four clock inputs. For, SPI1, SPI3, SPI4, and SPI5 they are wired to spi*_r_clk, spi*_pm_clk, axi2apb_*_pclk and sclk_in. For SPI2 it is spi2_r_clk, spi2_pm_clk, aon_apb_r_pclk and sclk_in. spi*_r_clk and spi*_pm_clk are connected to same clock source.

Clock Controller Functional Description PWM Clocking There are seven PWM instances in LSIO Cluster and one PWM instance in AON Cluster. PWM has two clock inputs. PWM instances in LSIO Cluster have pwm*_r_clk, axi2apb_*_pclk clock as its clock inputs. Similarly, PWM instance in AON Cluster has pwm4_r_clk and aon_apb_clk. The operation frequency of PWM is 408 MHz. CAN Clocking The SoC supports connectivity to two instances of Controller Area Network (CAN) in AO Partition. Each CAN instance has three clock inputs: aon_apb_r_clk, can*_core_r_clk and can*_host_r_clk.
##### 9.1.3.1.5 MMPLEX Clocking
NVENC Clocking The two NVENC clocks get two individual clocks with identical requirements. The main source is an NAFLL instance for each. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. There are skippers on the NVENC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used. OFA Clocking Optical Flow Accelerator (OFA) is a engine that does optical flow and stereo used for computer vision algorithms for Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS) as well as VR or Gaming. The main clocking source for OFA is a NAFLL dedicated for OFA. There are backup PLL sources for DFT FTM purposes. NVDEC Clocking The two NVDEC clocks get two individual clocks with identical requirements. The main source is an NAFLL instance for each. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. There are skippers on the NVDEC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used. VIC Clocking The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. ISP Clocking The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation.

Clock Controller Functional Description VI Clocking The main VI clock, vi_r_clk, is primarily sourced from the VI NAFLL, with the shared backup HPLLs (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) as backup sources for DFT FTM. PLLP is also provided, as well as clk_m_sys_clk. VI clocking has SLVS support and a new fixed-rate clock, vi_const_clk. This is sourced from PLLP, with clk_m_sys_clk also provided for when PLLP is not available. VI also requires nvcsi_clk, which is used by both the NVCSI and SLVS controllers, as well as tsc_ref_clk, which is used for the time stamp counter terminal node and Falcon IP within VI. There are reference clocks used by the camera sensors, ext_periph_clk{1-4}. The skipper (on vi_r_clk) is used to set a high frequency and then derive frequencies for lower perf points by skipping clock pulses rather than changing switch-divider settings. This is redundant when the primary NAFLL source is used, as the NAFLL’s skipper is used in that case. NVCSI_CIL Clocking The NVCSI_CIL module controls the individual lanes of a NVCSI composite brick. Each partition (4- lane) is associated with one SCIL, which includes one CIL block per lane/trio and lane merging functionality. NVCSI Clocking NVCSI reconstructed clock from the interface cannot be used to run the core as the clock would stop once the transfer is complete and the CSI pipeline is deeper than the number of cycles after the transaction is complete (to save power). Need to use another clocking source for NVCSI for processing the camera input pipeline. This clock is also an ISO clock. We have a dedicated HPLL for generating this clock. The target requirement is CPHY 1.1 (3.0 Gbps and DPHY 1.2 (2.5 Gbps), which leads to a maximum frequency of 428.6 MHz for CPHY (both functional and IOBIST modes), maximum functional frequency of 156.25 MHz for DPHY and maximum IOBIST frequency of 312.5 MHz for DPHY. NVJPG Clocking The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. TSEC Clocking There is one instance of TSEC in Orin. The main source is an NAFLL. The secondary sources (used for FTM) are the shared backup HPLLs (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM). For low-frequency use cases, PLLP is also provided as a source. There are skippers on the TSEC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used.

Clock Controller Functional Description SE Clocking The SE block has three main root clocks: se_clk, se_free_clk, and entropy_clk. The SE NAFLL is the primary source for the se_clk/se_free_clk clock switch. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) are also provided for DFT FTM mapping. PLLP is available for low-frequency use-cases, and as the primary clock source for entropy_clk. There is a skipper on se_r_clk and se_fr_clk. This is redundant when the primary NAFLL source is used. CV Cluster The CV cluster consists of one PVA cluster and two DLA instances. PVA Clocking The SoC has one instance of Programmable Vision Accelerator (PVA). The PVA clusters share a NAFLL pair, an ADC, and a HPLL. One of the NAFLLs in the pair of NAFLLs is used to clock the PVA- R5 and the Cortex-R5 subsystem. The other NAFLL in the pair is used to clock the VPS pair present in a PVA. Each VPS clock pair for a PVA (i.e., PVA0_vps0_clk and PVA0_vps1_clk) is sourced from the same switch divider. Each of these VPS clock branches can be individually be controlled by their respective skippers. Each of these clock branches can be individually be gated as well. The Cortex- R5 subsystem clock is generated from two different switch dividers. The PVA0_axi_clk has dedicated skippers as well after the switch dividers. DLA Clocking The SoC has two instances of DLA. The three major clocks are dla*_core_clock, dla*_falcon_clk and dla_host1x_clk. The DLA0_core_clock and DLA1_core clock are sourced from their respective clock dividers and there are dedicated skippers for the two clocks. DLA0 has a backup HPLL shared between the DLA0_core_clock and DLA0_falcon_clk. There is an ADC dedicated for DLA0. Similarly, DLA1 has a backup HPLL shared between the DLA1_core_clock and DLA1_falcon_clk and an ADC dedicated for DLA1. Each of the DLA0_core_clock / DLA0_falcon_clk and DLA1_core_clock / DLA1_falcon_clk can be clock gated individually. Display Clocking The SoC supports two display heads. Each of the display heads can use different resolutions with different pixel clock frequency requirements. Because of this, individual pixel clocks must be generated for each head. For each pixel clock, there is a mux between each of the VPLL instances. In test mode, DFT can use JTAG overrides to use the mux to select any VPLL for any head. All of these PLLs must have fractional NDIV capability in order to hit the exact frequencies required for the panel resolutions. SOR Clocks

Clock Controller Functional Description The SoC supports up to two SOR bricks that are independently configurable to use HDMI or DP modes, and each is able to use any of the two display heads. These map to one single-link DP Brick. This allows for 2head1or operation. This means that there is one LINK*_PLL_REF_CLK required (for the one link) but two SOR_CLKs. There are two separate pixel rate PLLs (VPLL0 and VPLL1) as well as two DisplayPort reference clock PLLs (SPPLL0 and SPPLL1). The VPLL instances are used to generate the pixel clock for a particular display head, and are used to generate the reference clock to the associated brick in HDMI mode. The muxes for the SOR reference clocks must also have separate dividers, as the ratio of pixel clock to SOR reference clock in HDMI mode can vary by use case and is not always 1:1. All these PLLs support spread spectrum for the SOR interfaces. The SOR clocks are treated asynchronously with respect to their associated head’s pixel clock. SPPLL0 can be configured without SSC and SPPLL1 so that the SOR/Link can use SSC independently from HDA, Display, and Display HUB clocks. DSI Clocks The SoC supports Display Serial Interface (DSI). In addition to the DSI DPHY interface (DSI-D), the DSI CPHY interface (DSI-C) is supported as well. There are three clocks needed for DSI: dsi_io_clk, dsi_core_clk and dsi_pixel_clk. The dsi_io_clk is a maximum of 2.5 GHz. The dsi_core_clk is dsi_io_clk, eight for DSI-D and dsi_io_clk, seven for DSI-C. The pixel clock, dsi_pixel_clk, is the same pixel rate required by rg_clk and sf_clk (in DSI modes). While the DSI-D frequencies can all be generated from one PLL, DSIPLL, the DSI-C dsi_pixel_clk requirements cannot be met with one PLL. Because of this, the SoC provides options for dsi_pixel_clk, rg0_clk and sf0_clk to be sourced from VPLL0 (cascaded with DSIPLL) in functional mode for DSI-C mode and DSIPLL for DSI-D mode. Regardless of DSI mode, dsi_io_clk is always sourced directly from DSIPLL and generates the dsi_core_clk (either divided-by-8 for DSI-D or divided-by-7 for DSI-C). High Definition Audio Clocks The first audio related clock, aza_2xbitclk, is the core clock for the HDA Azalea block. It is also the 2x clock for the audio CODEC. This is a fixed 108 MHz clock. There is also a second clock for the audio CODEC, aza_bitclk. This is a DIV2 of aza_2xbitclk (54 MHz). In DP mode, the SOR brick must derive a ratio of the link clock to the audio sample clock. The SOR logic uses a fixed 270 MHz clock, called maudclk, to do so. MAUD_CLK must track the 108 MHz aza_2xbitclk (which is the actual sample rate). Because of this, maudclk and aza_2xbitclk must both be sourced from the same PLL. FSI Cluster Also known as FSI_CAR, this cluster represents the Functional Safety Island. The primary difference for CAR is that the elements inside of this cluster are characterized differently in safety analysis as they have an ASIL-D rating target instead of an ASIL-B rating target. With this

Clock Controller Functional Description consideration, almost no external clocks are allowed to come from SOC_CAR to FSI_CAR; the exceptions are data back bone, DFT, and JTAG. The FSI clocking is built in a less generic fashion than many of the other IPs. This limits flexibility, but it provides fewer points of failure from a safety case perspective. The resulting product is both safer and doesn’t require as many extraneous diagnostics for unused modes. For example, fractional and excessively large dividers are not present. Additionally, clock trees are merged as much as possible in order to share diagnostic coverage on required CLK_GEN elements like switches and dividers. Top Cluster Clocking Fuse Clocking The source of fuse_clk is osc_div_clk. osc_div_clk is always set to undivided OSC (38.4 MHz). This simplifies the software as the divider value does not need to be accounted for. There is also an ungated version of fuse_clk called fuse_serial_clk. PADCTL Clocking The PWR_CTL PADCTL instance needs to use car2padctl_rstreq_clken with an SLCG for its apb_clk. This is a copy of pmc2car_rstreq_clken and is used to gate the clock during reset events, due to that instance’s use of an L1 warm reset. Each pad macro gets its own copy of the global PCLK. Backbone Cluster Clocking CBB Clocking The SoC uses a Hybrid approach with FlexNOC replacing the ARM SNIC-400. The AXIP2P for the AXI master and slaves is clocked by the corresponding master and slave clocks with an exception for PCIe, CPU, and GPU. TSECA, TSECB, NVDEC, JTAG, and Host1x are no-touch IPs. These AXIP2Ps for these IPs are clocked by axi_cbb_clk and the not the master/slave clocks, with the exception of Host1x, which uses host1x_clk. The clock generated is called the axi_cbb_clk. All other control back bone clocks are generated from the axi_cbb_clk. The axi_cbb_central clk is a skipped version of the axi_cbb_clk which is used for the NOC partition. The axi_cbb_gpu_clk is axi_cbb_clk branch for iGPU. Similarly the axi_cbb_cpu_clk is the axi_cbb_clk branch for the CPU. These clock branches are not gated at the root as the power savings is negligible. The CCPLEX’s AXIP2P is clocked by the axi_cbb_cpu_clk. The iGPU’s P2P is clocked by axi_cbb_clk and the split FIFOs clocked by axi_cbb_gpu_clk. The axi_cbb_gpu_clk and axi_cbb_cpu_clk is asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk. The clocks are tapped off from axi_cbb_clk, but have clock crossing FIFOs implemented so PD can treat them as asynchronous The PCIe controller’s AXIP2P is clocked by the axi_cbb_PCIe_vio_clk and axi_cbb_PCIe_vsoc_clk. There are two versions of the clock branch created for the two sub-chiplets in the IOVDD and

Clock Controller Functional Description VDD_SOC rails respectively and are asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk. They are gated at the root to save on clock distribution power. The clocks are tapped off from axi_cbb_clk as shown in the diagram, but have clock crossing FIFOs implemented so PD can treat them as asynchronous. The axi2apb_<n>_clk is a skipped version of the axi_cbb_clk where <n> denotes the bridge number. The CV clients need a branch of this clock called axi2apb_cv_clk. Like CV clients, the PCIe APB clients on the IOVDD rail also needs a branch of this clock which is called axi2apb_PCIe_clk.There are six bridges and one axi2abp_clk branch for each bridge. CBB Clock Crossings The axi_cbb_clk and axi_cbb_central clock is treated asynchronous to each other. All MDMMs use the axi2apb_<n>_clk. The axi2apb_<n>_clk and the axi_cbb_clk is treated as asynchronous to each other. For the AON cluster, there is a AXI Split FIFO which takes care of async voltage and clock domain crossings. The P2PS for the AON Cluster works on the AON NOC Clock domain. The async clock handoff is between the AON NOC clock and the axi_cbb_clk. This means that part of the split FIFO works on aon_NOC_clk (and lies in VDD_RTC rail) and a part of it is clocked by the axi_cbb_clk (and lies in VDD_SOC rail). For the BPMP, SCE, and RCE clusters the clock crossover is similar to AON cluster. The P2PM is in BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK domain and the async FIFO takes care of clock domain crossing from this domain to the AXI_CBB_CLK domain. The CBB slave port for the BPMP/SCE/RCE is APB, and as a result it hangs off an MDMM off an AXI2APB bridge, whichever is closest to the clusters physically. The clock crossing between the axi2apb_<n>_clk and the BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK domain happens in the transport layer of the BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK NOC, after the APB-INIU. For CPU and PCIe IPs, the AXIP2Ps works on a version of the axi_cbb_clk and not on the corresponding IP clock. The SoC uses split FIFOs for async clock and voltage crossings. For rest of the AXI master and slaves the corresponding AXIP2P works on the master/slave clocks. Asynchronous cross is from the master_clk to axi_cbb_clk between the master partitions to grout. Similarly, asynchronous cross is from the axi_cbb_clk to slave_clk between the grout and the slave partition. The CV rail APB clients sit behind an APB split FIFO. One end of the split FIFO is clocked by the axi2apb_<n>_clk and the other end by the axi2apb_cv_clk which is again derived from the same axi2apb_<n>_clk clock. This is treated asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk. Data Backbone Clocking The DBB clock is a divide by version (divide by 2), of the mux output of emcs*_clk. A branch of the same clock is the mchub_clk which is input to MSS HUB only. The dbb clock (called dbb_clk) is input to the DBB client chains. The dbb_clk (and all the derived versions of this dbb_clk) and the mchub_clk are asynchronous to each other. The Memory subsystem where the response/request links originate/terminate should add asynchronous FIFOs to handle dbb_clk to mchub_clk clock crossings. Consequently, the HUB partition receives the dbb_request_clk and dbb_return_clk branches as shown in the diagram

Clock Controller Functional Description below. mchub_clk and dbb_clk are same functionally but defined asynchronous to avoid timing closure complications. The dbb_clk is derived from one of the partitions and supplied to all other partitions that need it. The “Clock Macro” has buffer points where these clocks can be defined and treated as asynchronous by physical design. The mchub_clk is created locally for each partition by a divide down of the emchub_clk. These are named as mchub_clk, mchubb_clk and mchubbb_clk. The problem is that we cannot route two ratio synchronous clocks into a partition (EMC based clock and MC based clock). Doing so prevents partition level timing closure in PnR. The solution is to create the MC clock locally in each partition from the EMC based clock making sure that they are all in phase with each other. The DIV2 divider for all the mchub_clk branches is controlled by the same register bit. Since the dbb_clk is distributed to the various DBB clients in the SoC. Each chain branch of the dbb_clk has a request, return branch which are different trimmed branches and a branch for the partition/super client, axicif, mccif logic. These are called out as follows: dbb_clk: clock for various PCs and AXICIFs in client physical partitions. dbb_request_clk: Clock branch for the request path retiming stages. The TSA uses this branch as well and there is no separate TSA specific branch. dbb_response_clk: Clock branch for the response path retiming stages The level shifted versions of the dbb_clk for the AON cluster, CV units and PCIe controllers in the IO rail. All these dbb_clk verions have a request and response branch as well. dbb_clk, dbb_clk_cv, dbb_clk_ao, dbb_clk_PCIe are asynchronous to each other. DBB Clock Crossings For the AON cluster, the clock crossings between the AON_NOC_CLK and the DBB_CLK domains happen in the TSA structure. The TSA chain has a split FIFO for async clock and voltage crossings. A similar scheme is used for CV and PCIe IOVDD rail controllers also. For BPMP/RCE/SCE clusters, the clock domain crossing occurs between the BPMP/RCE/SCE_NOC_CLK domains and the DBB_CLK domains at the AXICIF module. All other clients are similar as the clock domain crossings occur at the AXICIF. The AXI interface side of the DBB client works on the master clock. HOST Clocking HOST receives host1x_clk. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below. Source Clock Destination Module Name Number of Instances Destination Module Clock Name host1x_clk HOST1X cpu2host1x_clk NVDEC host1x2nvdec_clk NVENC host1x2nvenc_clk NVJPG host1x2nvjpg_clk, host1x2nvjpg_clk

Clock Controller Functional Description Source Clock Destination Module Name Number of Instances Destination Module Clock Name TSEC host1x2tsec_clk, host1x2tsec_clk DPAUX host1x2dpaux_clk, host1x2dpaux_clk SOR host1x2sor_clk, host1x2sor_clk NVDISPLAY nvdisplay_hostclk VIC host1x2vic_clk DLA dla0_host1x_clk, dla1_host1x_clk PVA host1x2pva0_clk Control Backbone axi_cbb_host_clk Data Backbone host1xclk Central ACTMON Clocking The central ACTMON sits in the BPMP cluster. Refer to the BPMP clocking section above for details. GPCDMA Clocking The SoC has one GPCDMA instance in Top. It has gpcdma_clk and gpcdma_pclk as its clock inputs. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below. Module Name Located in Cluster Module Clock name Connected to Clock GPCDMA TOP gpcdma_clk axi_cbb_central_clk gpcdma_pclk axi2apb_2_pclk GPIO Clocking There are five GPIO at TOP and one GPIO in AON cluster. GPIO have two clock inputs. They are gpio_ctl*_clk and gpio_ctl*_pclk. Details about the clock connections can be found in the table below. Out of the five GPIOs at TOP, GPIO_CTRL0 is in IO VDD domain and other four SoC domains. Module Name Number of Instances Located in Cluster Module Clock name Connected to Clock GPIO TOP gpio_ctl*_clk gpio_ctl*_clk gpio_ctl*_pclk axi2apb_*_pclk AON GPIO AON gpio_ctl*_clk aon_apb_clk gpio_ctl*_pclk aon_apb_clk

Clock Controller Functional Description LIC Clocking LIC has two clock inputs. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below. Module Name Number of Instances Located in Cluster Module Clock name Connected to Clock LIC TOP intr_ctlr_pclk lic_pclk / axi2apb_2_pclk sys_sclk axi2apb_2_pclk Timers GTE Clocking There are eight instances of generic timestamping engine (GTE). One instance per BPMP/AON/SCE/ RCE/PVA0-1 cluster and two instances in Top (outside of the clusters). GTE has three clock inputs. The pclk and clk inputs of the GTE are wired to APB clock and refclk input is wired to tsc_ref_clk. APB clock input of GTE in BPMP/AON/SCE/RCE/PVA0 cluster and two instances in Top (outside of the clusters). GTE has three clock inputs. The pclk and clk inputs of GTE are wired to APB clock and refclk input is wired to tsc_ref_clk. . Timers RTC Clocking RTC is a real-time clock in the AO partition that measures elapsed time since the last cold boot. clk_s_sys_clk (32 kHz) is source clock for RTC and aon_apb_clk is configuration clock. Timers TKE Clocking A Time Keeping Element module (TKE) encapsulates a set of NV timers and Watchdog timers. There are seven instances of TKE. TKE is instantiated in TOP and in each of Cortex-R5 clusters (BPMP/AO/SCE/RCE/PVA0/APE).TKE has tsc_ref_clk, clk_m_sys_clk and apb_clk as its clocking inputs. Configuration clock for TKE is APB clock of the partition in which TKE is instanced. So, TKE in BPMP/AON/SCE/RCE/PVA0/TOP cluster is wired to bpmp_nic_clk/aon_apb_r_clk/sce_nic_clk/ rce_nic_clk/dce_nic_clk/pva*_apb_clk/axi2apb_cbb_clk respectively. Timers TSC Clocking TSC generates the tsc_ref_r_clk which is used by other timers including TKE. tsc_ref_r_clk (31.25 MHz) is used as a reference for running timers throughout the chip and is generated by skipping edges from a PLLP (either PLLP/10=40.8MHz, PLLP/12=34MHz) or Oscillator based clock.

Clock Controller Programming Guidelines
#### 9.1.3.2 Clock Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 9.1.3.2.1 Software Partitioning
The CAR registers are controlled by NVIDIA provided firmware running on BPMP, this is referred to as the BPMP-FW clock services. Therefore these registers are not documented in this TRM, and the relevant documentation should be consulted to find how to control the CAR functions. BPMP is the owner of clocking and voltage related hardware components. BPMP firmware manages the programming of PLLs and AVFS-NAFLLs, clock source selection registers, dividers, and clock gating control. The exception to the above is the programming of the CCPLEX clocking registers (handled by MCE) and some AO clocking registers (e.g., the AON slaves, AON-R5 is still controlled by BPMP). The secure clocks in AO cluster are still controlled by BPMP. Since there is only a per-register page block-level firewall protection available for most of the CAR pages and because BPMP needs access to clock enable and reset registers for power management, BPMP as secure master is the best choice. The specific goal for clocking is to prevent underclocking or overclocking secure state info/logic. The one exception is the AON_SCR_SHARED SCR Group, which provides access both to BPMP and potentially AON-R5.
