## 9.12 Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
### 9.12.1 Overview
The Hardware Performance Monitor is useful for performance monitoring. Key features include: Periodic sampling, in the range 1 Hz to 1 MHz, of performance counters without CPU polling or high CPU overhead. Uniform approach to capture SoC IP performance metrics for SoC clients. A programmable approach to capturing performance events. GPU performance monitors support a variety of modes for capturing performance statistics. Ability to capture SoC, CPU, and GPU bandwidth utilization in a single pass. Provides a performance debug platform for graphics and visualization software developers. The SoC has a fully separate performance monitor subsystem from the hardware performance monitor (HWPM) subsystem of the GPU. This includes a separate programming interface and

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) separate record streaming path to memory. Detailed information on the system level diagram of the HWPM subsystem can be found in the System Block Diagram section below. Available performance monitoring systems include: GPU HWPMs Profiling of GPU performance metrics - Both period and range-based profiling Record streaming to memory and register polling support Context save/restore support SOC HWPMs Profiling of SoC IP and memory subsystem metrics Record streaming to memory and register polling support No context save/restore support MC stats Counters to capture bandwidth statistics Register polling support only Client and address filtering The following IP blocks are affected by the features described in this chapter: HWPM blocks PERFMUX, PERFMON, HUB, ROUTER, PMA VI ISP VIC OFA PVA NVDLA MGBE PCIe SCF NVENC NVDEC DISPLAY MSS The following software stacks are affected by features described in this chapter: SoC HWPM driver DEVTOOLS: product level performance monitor toolset Hardware infrastructure tools: Internal performance monitor toolset

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) BPMP driver Table 9.92 Glossary Abbreviation/Term Definition APB Advanced Peripheral Bus CBB Control Backbone DLA Deep Learning Accelerator GPU Graphics Processing Unit PERFMON Performance Monitor (unit) HWPM Hardware Performance Monitor (full path) PMA Performance Monitor Accumulator PVA Programmable Vision Accelerator RPG Remote Perfmon (performance monitor) Group VPM Virtual Performance Monitor VM Virtual Machine
#### 9.12.1.1 System Block Diagram
The HWPM path includes a performance mux (PERFMUX) that funnels the performance monitoring events out of the SoC IP, a performance monitor (PERFMON) used for counting the selected output events, HUBs that funnel performance monitor count outputs for a given local group of PERFMONs, a SYS ROUTER that captures results from all the HUBs and, finally a performance monitor accumulator (PMA). The figure below illustrates the HWPM paths in both the SoC and the GPU. A local PERFMON cluster and HUB is instanced as a single block called a remote perfmon group (RPG). Ideally, each PERFMON runs on the same clock as that used to generate the event. However, HWPMs do allow for asynchronous event capture. For this, events must be generated from a clock of equal or lower frequency to the PERFMON clock. The clock used to capture and forward RPG outputs to SYS ROUTER and PMA is common across all SoC IPs.

### OCR (Page 9218) ~~~text Technical Reference Manual
Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
«= BPMP driver
Table 9.92 Glossary
Abbreviation/Term Definition
APB Advanced Peripheral Bus
CBB Control Backbone
DLA Deep Learning Accelerator
GPU Graphics Processing Unit
PERFMON Performance Monitor (unit)
HWPM Hardware Performance Monitor (full path)
PMA Performance Monitor Accumulator
PVA Programmable Vision Accelerator
RPG Remote Perfmon (performance monitor) Group
VPM Virtual Performance Monitor
VM Virtual Machine
9.12.1.1 System Block Diagram
The HWPM path includes a performance mux (PERFMUX) that funnels the performance monitoring
events out of the SoC IP, a performance monitor (PERFMON) used for counting the selected output
events, HUBs that funnel performance monitor count outputs for a given local group of
PERFMONs, a SYS ROUTER that-captures results from all the HUBs and, finally a performance
monitor accumulator (PMA)sThe figure below illustrates the HWPM paths in both the SoC and the
GPU.
A local PERFMON cluster and HUB is instanced as a single block called a remote perfmon group
(RPG). Ideally, eachsPERFMON runs on the same clock as that used to generate the event.
However, HWPMS.do allow for asynchronous event capture. For this, events must be generated
from a clock of ‘equal or lower frequency to the PERFMON clock. The clock used to capture and
forward RPG outputs to SYS ROUTER and PMA is common across all SoC IPs. ~~~

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
**Figure 9.91 HWPM Block Diagram**
Programming of the SoC HWPM path is performed by a common SoC HWPM driver. HWPM registers exist outside of the IP. Enables and selects for PERFMUXs are captured in the IP using local IP registers. A separate aperture exists for programming the RPG PERFMONs. Because the HWPM design originates from GPU, the programming interface for PERFMON blocks is PRI. Each RPG instances an APB2PRI shim to allow the RPG to connect to the SoC control backbone (CBB). Note there is no change to programming of GPU HWPM path from previous generations.
##### 9.12.1.1.1 PERFMON Record Streaming
The ability to stream performance metrics through a side channel path while the application is running provides minimally invasive techniques for gathering performance statistics. SoC and GPU HWPM subsystems allow for PERFMON record streaming. Snapshots of PERFMON records can be timer based (frequency-based profiling) or event based (range-based profiling). Frequency-based profiling relies on a programmable count down value. After the timer reaches zero, all PERFMON records are snapped and streamed to memory. Range-based profiling relies on engine triggers from IPs containing PERFMONs to snap and stream all PERFMONs in the SoC to memory. Profiling tools use these triggers to denote start and stop of a given engine context. Accurate performance information is gained by isolating the engine context.

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Records streamed from PERFMONs can be gathered from 16 or 32-bit counters. 32-byte records are streamed out from each PERFMON once it is triggered. Events are captured at the speed of the IP clock driving the event and can be sent back-to-back. The figure below and the IPs Utilizing HWPMs section provide more details on the HWPM record streaming path and IP PERFMON count to help understand performance metric capture bandwidth implications based on capture granularity.
**Figure 9.92 Record Streaming Path**
Bandwidth of the capture stream is application dependent. An example of PERFMON record stream bandwidth is provided below: PERFMONs are set to Mode C (using 16-bit counters) Counter threshold = 0xF000 (~60,000) Maximum IP event clock = 1.2GHz 64 PERFMONs in SoC HWPM subsystems Threshold trigger period 60,000/1.2GHz = 50us Data capture size 32B record * 64 PERFMONs = 2KB Sustained bandwidth 2KB/50us = 41MB/s Burst bandwidth 16B*625MHz = 10GB/s for 200ns

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) To support 1MHz sample rate for all PERFMONs requires roughly 2GB/s of sustained memory bandwidth. The HWPM memory bandwidth is capped at 1GB, allowing up to half of the PERFMONs to be sampled at 1MHz or all PERFMONs to be sampled at 500KHz rate or every 2us. PMA records are stored in a circular buffer in memory. The figure below describes how records are accessed in the buffer whose location and size are set using PMA OUTBASE and OUTSIZE. Hardware increments MEM_HEAD after every record store. Software maintains the read pointer and indicates read pointer increments via updates to PMA MEM_BUMP.
**Figure 9.93 PMA Circular Buffer**
#### 9.12.1.2 Performance Monitor Description
A key advantage of the HWPM is their programmable nature. Based on the PERFMON mode, events can be used as single bit increment pulse, or a combination of signals can be used to increment a count by a programmable amount. It is possible to define an experiment using any combination of events going to the PERFMON. The experiment defines the level required for all events and the amount to increment the counter based on the event levels. The table below illustrates examples of experiments for the available PERFMON modes. Additionally, timestamps can be written out along with the count. Note that mode C counter width is only 16 bits when supporting 12 counters. To avoid saturation of the counter, PERFMON snaps and streams out an intermediate record when any counter reaches the thresholds in the table below. Tools can detect overflow records and aggregate into a wider software counter. If a PERFMON has back-pressure and cannot snap a record, then the counter saturates at the maximum value. Table 9.93 Performance Monitor Streaming Overflow Threshold Counter Width Threshold 16-bit 0xF000

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Counter Width Threshold 32-bit 0xF0000000 Table 9.94 Performance Monitor Mode Examples Mode Maximum Counters Counter Width Increment Streaming A 1 with state 1 or “const value” No B1 1 to 12 bits No C 1 or “const value” Yes C 12x16b or [4 x 16b, 4 x 32b] 1 or “const value” Yes C with local trigger 10 x 16b 1 or “const value” Yes E2 1 to 12 bits Yes 1. 2. Mode B assumes General Counting Mode (GCM) is used Mode E assumes General Counting Mode (GCM) is used
#### 9.12.1.3 Performance Event Considerations
It is useful to consider performance in terms of the metrics germane to the IP being monitored. For example, OFA IP might consider “motion vectors per second”. This requires two pieces of information: motion vector count and timestamps associated with the count. Other metrics may include two or more counts.
##### 9.12.1.3.1 Average Latency Support
The SoC HWPM supports latency histograms within the PERFMONs. However, this requires the entire PERFMON, thus limiting performance metric capture to a single metric. By supporting average latency, a fraction of the Mode C PERFMON counters are available for capturing other metrics. A key metric to capture with latency is the associated IP bandwidth. Average latency requires three counters: Request Count (R_COUNT) Accumulated over the profiling period Outstanding Request Count (OR_COUNT) Increments with request Decrements with response Count changes every cycle based on requests and response activity Count returns to zero when all responses are received

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Accumulated Outstanding Request Count (AOR_COUNT) Accumulates the outstanding request count over time AOR_COUNT = AOR_COUNT + OR_COUNT The average latency for an outstanding request is calculated using the following formula: Average Latency = AOR_COUNT / R_COUNT The figure below illustrates an example of calculating average latency using the three counters listed above where two back-to-back requests are followed by back-to-back responses seven cycles later.
**Figure 9.94 Average Latency Example**
Support for average latency with HWPM requires IP to implement the outstanding request count (OR_COUNT) prior to the PERFMUX. Additionally, the PERFMON group must contain the following inputs: Request Count Outstanding Request Count Resetting of outstanding request count prior to profiling run helps ensure a more accurate count of outstanding requests per cycle. To avoid counter wrapping negative, IPs should clamp the outstanding request count (OR_COUNT) to zero. Accumulated Outstanding Request Support AOR_COUNT is implemented with PERFMON counters. Two implementations are described in this section: Using multiple PERFMON counters Allows for capturing outstanding requests at a finer granularity

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Useful for high frequency sampling of PERFMON records of high bandwidth clients Using single PERFMON counter Allows for capturing over six additional metrics in a single pass Useful for capturing average latency over wider time periods
#### 9.12.1.4 Performance Trigger Considerations
Performance monitors use a variety of triggers to cause PERFMON to output data to memory. Reasons to output performance monitor records are: Periodic sampling Simultaneously snapping all IP PERFMONS. PERFMON is configured to snap on pma_trigger. pma_trigger is driven by a periodic pulse from the PMA. Performance monitor overflow PERFMON automatically writes out a record if the count reaches a fixed threshold. See the “Performance Monitor Streaming Overflow Threshold” table. IP context switching Forcing records to memory for a given IP when IP switches contexts Required for multi-VM platforms Local trigger Cross triggering Triggering record writes between SoC and GPU HWPM subsystems CPU trigger CPU generated trigger based upon PMA register write NV_PERF_PMA_TRIGGER_GLOBAL (used by many tools) NV_PERF_PMA_SYS_TRIGGER_START NV_PERF_PMA_SYS_TRIGGER_STOP - - - CPU generated local trigger based upon PMM register write - - NV_PERF_PMM_CONTROLB_FLUSH_RECORD NV_PERF_PMM_STARTEXPERIMENT Local PERFMON trigger - PERFMONs can be configured to snap records on other events on the PERFMON watch bus. t_pulse – Local periodic clock with rates of 2{10-16} cycles in the PERFMONs clock domain. Mode E – any 1-bit signal (on a pulse) Mode C – any 4-bit predicate (including t_pulse, pma_trigger, etc.) valid + 32-bit bookmark – direct IP trigger to cause snapshot

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) In general, the SoC HWPMs configures PERFMONS to snap based upon periodic triggers from the PMA. The HWPM subsystem accomplishes periodic sampling by implementing a count-down trigger in PMA. Once the counter reaches zero, PMA triggers all PERFMONs to snap the counters and stream a 32-byte record to the PMA to be written to memory. SoC HWPMs support triggering for all the reasons listed except for cross triggering between SoC IPs. Cross triggering is only allowed between SoC and GPU HWPM subsystems (PMAs).
##### 9.12.1.4.1 Performance Metric Record Alignment
Performance metric records contain up to a 40-bit “timestamp”. This timestamp is measured in the clock domain of the local PERFMON. This can only be correlated to wall clock time if the frequency of the PERFMON clock domain is fixed. The PMA unit has a feature called PMA record that outputs a global wall clock timestamp (TSC) as part of its record along with TOTAL_TRIG_COUNT that can be matched to PERFMON record TOTAL_TRIG_RCV count to correlate to wall clock time. The following sequence illustrates how the correlation between PERFMON free running counter timestamp and PMA (TSC) timestamp is established: PMA periodic timer pops PMA sends global trigger to all PERFMONs PMA outputs TSC TIMESTAMP and TOTAL_TRIG_COUNT PERFMONs send records to PMA with “local counter” TIMESTAMP and TOTAL_TRIG_RCV Post processing looks for PERFMON records where TOTAL_TRIG_COUNT equals TOTAL_TRIG_RCV. The relationship between wall clock and local timer is established using corresponding PMA and PERFMON TIMESTAMPs. When considering local triggers, records of a given IP are injected into the HWPM record buffer between the sampled records. Local triggered records can be identified by the PMLOCALTRIG_COUNTA field > 0. Tools can either use linear interpolation of PERFMON record timestamps using two neighboring PMA trigger records or rely on bookmarks to align performance metric records to the IP VM timestamp records in a separate buffer. Correlation of locally triggered and periodically sampled records can be achieved using timestamps in these record types.
##### 9.12.1.4.2 PERFMON Local Triggers
PERFMON supports a variety of local triggers. Local trigger usage is available in Mode C and Mode E specifically external bookmark trigger. A description of local trigger is as follows: Modes C and E supports PERFMON Local Triggers. This is a hardwired interface. Each local trigger supports: 1-bit trigger wire 16-bit bookmark IP implementing local triggers outputs two local trigger/bookmarks:

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) PMA_ENGINE_START, PM_LOCAL_TRIGA, PM_LOCAL_BKMKA PMA_ENGINE_STOP, PM_LOCAL_TRIGB, PM_LOCAL_BKMKB TOTAL_TRIG_RCV and PM_LOCAL_TRIGB share the same location in the 32-byte record. IP should use PM_LOCAL_TRIGA. Trigger outputs are from IP local trigger registers IP microprocessor (Falcon or Cortex-R5): Writes bookmark Toggles trigger PERFMON snaps (write out record) when local trigger wire is asserted. If the PERFMON is unable to snap due to backpressure, the record may be merged with additional PMA or local triggers. If two local triggers are merged, the local trigger count is two and the bookmark is from the most recent trigger. A tool can identify this case and still correlate to the two events in the IPs event log. It is recommended that bookmarks are implemented as a monotonically incrementing ID to support this case. Output PERFMON record contains: Mode C - Single 16-bit bookmark and local trigger count Mode E - Two 16-bit bookmarks and two local trigger counts Mode C Record 15 8 7 0 .--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----. 0x00 | timestamp[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x02 | TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[7:0] | timestamp[23:16] | <-- or TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[7:0] only if TRIGRCV_IN_MODEC is set +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x04 | PERFMONID[7:0] | TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[15:8] | <-- or TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[15:8] only if TRIGRCV_IN_MODEC is set +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x06 |0 |0 |0 |DS|PMID[10:8]| SMPLCNT[8:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x08 | count0[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) 0x0A | count1[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0C | count2[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0E | count3[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x10 | count4[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x12 | count5[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x14 | count6[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x16 | count7[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x18 | count8[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x1A | count9[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x1C | pm local trigger A count | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x1E | bookmark A | `--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----' Mode E Record 15 8 7 0 .--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----. 0x00 | timestamp[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) 0x02 | timestamp[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x04 | PERFMONID[7:0] | timestamp[39:32] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x06 |0 |0 |0 |DS|PMID[10:8]| SMPLCNT[8:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x08 | count0[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0A | count0[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0C | count1[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0E | count1[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x10 | count2[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x12 | count2[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x14 | count3[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x16 | count3[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x18 | pm local trigger B count | <-- or TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[15:0] if +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ PMLOCALTRIGB_EN_DISABLE 0x1A | bookmark B | <-- or TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[31:0] if +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ PMLOCALTRIGB_EN_DISABLE 0x1C | pm local trigger A count | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x1E | bookmark A |

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) `--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----' Use of local triggers to support VM annotation is described in the Virtualization Support section. While other local triggers mechanisms are available in HWPM, triggers occur via access to PERFMON registers. Access to PERFMON registers from IP microcontroller is not supported. Use of local triggers are limited to IPs running on platforms using a variety VMs over a given period. The following IPs require local triggering: VI ISP PVA VIC OFA NVENC NVDLA
##### 9.12.1.4.3 GPU-SOC Cross Triggers
HWPMs can capture or “snap” PERFMON records globally in memory via trigger signals. These triggers are local to the performance monitor accumulator (PMA) and described later in this section. There are two separate HWPM subsystems in the SoC. These two subsystems utilize cross triggers for handshaking between the GPU and SoC. This feature benefits two types of tools: 1. Periodic Sampling a. b. Enable consistent sampling period Improve low frequency sampling avoiding skew and drift between PERFMON systems Support low overhead synchronized event-based sampling c. i. Example: system task manager triggers at start and end of each task 2. Range Profiling a. b. Allow for asynchronous trigger via GPU command buffer Critical for graphics/compute triage of memory system counter i. GPU HWPM path has very poor memory observation at both HSHUB and MSS To accomplish the required handshake, one HWPM path is the initiator (generate triggers from PMA) and the other HWPM path is the target (receive triggers to PMA). The initiator generates a packet-based trigger where: Trigger start packet indicates start capturing performance monitor events in memory Trigger stop packet indicates stop capturing performance monitor events in memory

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Target HWPM path suspends capture of performance monitor events unless trigger is active when it is configured to wait on a trigger. Either SoC or GPU PMA can act as an initiator and cause a trigger to the other PMA. The trigger is accomplished via a write to PMA’s programmable global output trigger register. These bits are directly output from PMA as engine triggers and typically connect to PERFMONs in the HWPM subsystem to generate a global trigger. PMA also supports input triggers to capture records. In GPU, these triggers typically connect to engines utilizing performance monitors to allow multi- engine monitoring controlled by a single engine. One GPU PMA global output trigger is connected to an SoC PMA input engine trigger. Also, one SoC PMA global output trigger is connected to a GPU PMA input engine trigger. Together, these triggers enable cross triggering between HWPM subsystems in both directions. Due to clock synchronization issues on cross trigger input to GPU, there is a potential for metastability within GPU PMA on the engine trigger input path. Therefore, SoC to GPU cross triggering is not available in the SoC. However, GPU to SoC cross triggering is supported and there are no metastability issues in this direction. SoC to GPU cross triggering requires triggers be spaced a minimum of 35 LA clock cycles (625MHz) to avoid potential corruption to trigger counts received.
##### 9.12.1.4.4 SoC PMA Engine Triggers
The HWPM PMA supports up to 64 engine triggers. Each engine can support a 1-bit start, a 1-bit stop, and a 32-bit bookmark. The start and stop signals are passed to the PMA trigger state machine. An engine should pulse the start or stop for one cycle. Table 9.95 SoC PMA Engine Triggers ENGINE START STOP BOOKMARK PMA NV_PERF_GLOBAL_TRIGGER_START NV_PERF_GLOBAL_TRIGGER_ START Not supported GPU-PMA-SYS GPU-PMA-SYS-PMA-TRIGGER level signal passed through clock domain crossing and edge to pulse generator. 0 (tied to ground) Not supported VI PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not supported ISP PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported PVA PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported VIC PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported OFA PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported NVDEC PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported NVDLA PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) ENGINE START STOP BOOKMARK MGBE PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported PCIe PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported DISPLAY PMA_ENGINE_START PMA_ENGINE_STOP Not Supported Triggers sourced at the IP level are necessary to support range-based profiling. This requires one or both of the following: The ability for the IP microprocessor to generate local triggers Support via Local Trigger registers start and stop trigger bits as described in the PERFMON Local Triggers Only saves IP PERFMON records Predefined hardware events used to generate engine triggers Events may have element of programmability via IP register configuration bits. Events can be qualified with: - - - Trigger arming Mode qualifying Trigger count Saves records of all PERFMONs in the SoC The PMA trigger system supports per engine start and stop masks to disable specific engines. All engine triggers must be aligned to LA clock and are single active high pulse. Note that for use cases where engine triggers are used in the SoC, it is possible to lose a trigger due to incorrect sizing of split FIFO in the engine trigger path to PMA.
#### 9.12.1.5 Memory Subsystem Single Pass Profiling
The MSS HWPM path supports single pass performance monitoring where memory bandwidth statistics are simultaneously collected in three categories: CPU traffic GPU traffic Total traffic These three categories are not programmable. To implement this capability, MSS contains HWPMs over all memory channels. Using client ID (CGID), associated CPU, GPU and total traffic counters in the channel are incremented appropriately. Each client ID supports the following four counters: Bytes read Bytes write

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Cycles read active Cycle write active Mode C is required to collect all three clients. Either bytes or utilization can be collected from any two clients using Mode E. When collecting this data, it is critical to understand observation enabled by Mode C versus counter width of Mode E. If PERFMONs operate at 1GHz and there are 16 PERFMONS, then Mode C generates 32 bytes/record x channels x 1GHz / 0xF000 = ~8MB of data per second, whereas Mode E generates 512 bytes. SoC HWPM can be configured to collect this information via periodic PMA triggers. GPU HWPM has access to MSS via wires from MSS to the GPU HWPM mc0 PERFMON, which requires many two passes x channels for bytes or utilization. This is also supported for GPU tools that support both periodic sampling (PerfInspector, Nsight GPU Trace) and range profiling (Cyclestats, Perfalyze, Nsight Graphics Range Profiler, Nsight Compute Profiler). Periodic sampling generally uses PMA periodic triggers. Range profiling uses asynchronous push buffer methods to generate PMA triggers around a range of GPU work. GPU range profiling can be performed at a GPU device level or for a GPU graphics engine context. In graphics engine context level profiling, the GPU Front End Context Switch (FECS) unit is responsible for freezing the HWPM PM system, draining in flight records, saving the state of the PERFMONS and PMA, and later restoring the state of the PERFMONS and PMA. A GPU range profiler must use both the SoC HWPM and GPU HWPM system to capture MSS counters within the specified asynchronous GPU range. The following sequence describes GPU device level range profiling: Reserve HWPM 1. Begin Session a. b. Reserve SoC HWPM Device Level Reserve GPU HWPM Device Level Disable GPU Power Management [OPTIONAL] Lock GPU Clocks Setup GPU HWPM c. d. e. i. Allocate PMA Buffer Map PMA Buffer Reset PMA Set Trigger Mode to Mixed Mode or Fermi Mode Bind PMA Buffer Reset Trigger Counts ii. iii. iv. v. vi. f. Setup SoC HWPM i. Allocate PMA Buffer

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) ii. Map PMA Buffer Reset PMA Set Trigger Mode to Tesla Set Engine Trigger Mask to GPU PMA Engine Configure SoC PMA as a cross trigger target. Set PMA to trigger on GPU PMA engine start triggers. Set the GPU engine for Tesla trigger mode (toggle). This propagates all triggers from GPU PMA SYS pma_trigger to SoC PMA SYS pma_triggers. Reset Trigger Counts iii. iv. v. vi. vii. 2. Begin Pass a. GPU i. Convert PERFMON and perfmux regops to push buffer and/or push methods. b. SoC i. Convert PERFMON and perfmux regops to SoC HWPM driver format and execute a register operation SYSCALL to the SoC HWPM driver to configure units (MC). The tool may choose to keep this configuration for all passes. c. Begin Range i. GPU - Push PmTrigger (results in start trigger from graphics engine) Push any other graphics works. ii. d. End Range i. GPU – Push WaitForIdle GPU – Push PmTrigger (results in start trigger from graphics engine). It is also possible to use end of pipe trigger, but due to need to guarantee isolation and no merged triggers, there is usually a wait for idle and delay between ranges. GPU – Push DELAY to ensure EndRange trigger and the next BeginRange trigger does not merge due to back pressure. Not all PERFMON systems have enough buffering for 2-3 back-to-back triggers. ii. iii. e. Repeat (c) Begin Range – (d) End Range End Pass f. i. GPU – Push Wait for Idle This is the end of the frame of work. In the case of APIC based replay or kernel replay, the state of the system is restored to before the frame. Process PMA Buffer ii. iii. a. For SoC PMA and GPU PMA i. This can be done using a CPU/GPU synchronization or from a background thread. For GPU use case ii. a. b. CPU PRI write to flush, and CPU PRI read to get buffer CPU poll on PRI read value equal memory value Process buffer CPU PRI write to update PMA buffer bytes processed c. d.

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) e. GPU can be optimized to perform the PRI operations through the push buffer to avoid SYSCALL overhead. Across multiple frames the PRI operations can be batched to avoid number of SYSCALLs. iii. For CPU use case, the same operations are performed through the SoC HWPM driver. g. h. Repeat (b) Begin Pass – (f) End Pass End Session i. Clean-up all operations performed in Begin Session plus all PERFMONS and PERFMUXES. The following sequence describes GPU Context Switched Range Profiling: Same as Device Level but Reservation of GPU HWPM is at GPU context level and GPU HWPM context switch is enabled. If a GPU context switch occurs in the middle of a range, then tools extend GPU FECS µcode to execute a GPU PMA PRI trigger before save and after restore of the target graphics engine context. This generates additional records. The table below shows the PMA records output. Pass 1 has no GPU graphics engine context switch. Pass 2 has a context switch in the middle of range 2. For handling context switching assume that End Range (ii) above will pushes WaitForIdle and PmTrigger (start trigger) for the end of a range. The tool does not push a PmTriggerEnd (to generate a graphics engine end of pipe trigger). PASS RANGE START TRIGGER COUNT END TRIGGER COUNT TOTAL TRIGGER COUNT Begin 1 End 1 Begin 2 End 2 Begin 1 CTXSW save CTXSW restore End 1 Begin 2 End 2 This requires additional post processing of the GPU (not SoC) PMA Record trigger counts to determine if GPU context switches occurred during a range or between ranges. In the case of Pass 2 Range 1, a context switch occurred so the tool processes both CPU and GPU records using the TOTAL TRIGGER COUNT == TOTAL_TRIG_RCV as: Pass 2 Range 1 Values

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Elapsed Cycles = (Record 6 – Record 5) + (Record 8 – 7) Counter Values = Record 6 + Record 8
#### 9.12.1.6 Programming Path
##### 9.12.1.6.1 Register Space
Programming of SoC HWPM path registers is accomplished via a common SoC HWPM driver. Registers reside in HWPM blocks outside of the IP. There are four HWPM registers groups: PERFMUX (part of IP register space) PERFMON SYS ROUTER PMA The following table provides information on register group control parameters and register space size. The performance monitor registers lie in a contiguous space due to GPU build script limitations. Table 9.96 Performance Monitor Registers Information Register Space PERFMUX PERFMON SYS ROUTER PMA Control Functions Mux Enable, Selects Monitor experiment parameters PERFMON record streaming control Buffer Control, Triggers Size per space 4B per register 4KB 512B 8KB Total Size over IPs N/A 2MB 4KB 8KB Contiguous over IPs No Yes Yes Yes Programming of the SoC HWPM path occurs prior to starting the use case and collection of performance statistics. Reprogramming of HWPM registers during the use case is not supported.
##### 9.12.1.6.2 Power Sequencing
Power sequencing for SoC IPs containing HWPMs makes the following assumptions: IP containing HWPMs but not involved in profiling may power up or down during performance monitoring IP and HWPM RPG reside in the same physical chiplet RPG final output is via split FIFO (supporting CDC and VDC) RPG supports IP reset (via IP output clamp) and global HWPM reset (LA clock aligned)

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) The power up/power down sequences below should be followed by all IPs utilizing HWPMs. Power up sequence For IPs using ASYNC reset - - - - Assert IP reset Ungate IP power Ungate IP clocks Unclamp IP outputs For IPs using SYNC reset - - - - Ungate IP power Ungate IP clocks Assert IP reset Unclamp IP outputs Power down sequence Ensure IP is idle Ensure IP performance monitoring is off Ensure PERFMON counters are zero Reset IP Clamp IP outputs Gate IP clocks Gate IP voltage Remove IP reset Note that RPG logic uses only ASYNC reset flops. RPGs utilize IP power clamps instead of IP resets for resetting RPG flops. This ensures that clamps are always active when clocks start, regardless of IP reset levels.
#### 9.12.1.7 Virtualization Support
HWPM virtualization support annotates the accelerator’s performance monitor metrics with information on virtual machine (VM) occupancy of the accelerator over time, as illustrated in the figure below.
**Figure 9.95 IP VM Switch Example**

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) The timeline in the figure shows periodic sampling (PMA_trigger) of an accelerator’s performance counter (accelerator_cntr) and the VM context active on the accelerator (accelerator_vm). The last row (with local_trigger) shows an improved version of the performance counter collection, where an additional global or local trigger occurs on an accelerator context switch, so performance counters can correctly be attributed to a context. Virtual OS support is accomplished via post processing of HWPM records with timestamp and VM switching information from hardware accelerators (IPs). HWPM virtualization support makes the following assumptions: Memory buffer exists per IP used to store timestamp, bookmark, and VM switch information Buffer read/write accessible by IP firmware and read accessible by SoC HWPM driver Local trigger support exists in IP to cause writes of IP performance metric record to memory IP contains a microprocessor (Falcon or Cortex-R5) and has access to global timer (TSC) The following steps outline the IP sequence to support VM annotation to PERFMON records: IP completes processing of context A IP signals a local trigger to PERFMONs. Generate trigger event via: IP microprocessor (Falcon or Cortex-R5) write to “local trigger register” - - Sets bookmark Toggles trigger PERFMON record snapped to memory via local trigger See the Performance Trigger Considerations section for local trigger description IP microprocessor (Falcon or Cortex-R5) reads TSC IP microprocessor determines next VM context to run IP writes a record to “IP timestamp buffer” with the following information: Timestamp (TSC value) If the event is a switch event, then the event contains an identifier for the old VM context and an identifier for the new VM context. If the event is a range event, then start and end events contain an identifier for the VM context. This generates 2x the number of events as a switch event. 16-bit bookmark value that corresponds to local trigger bookmark. IP starts processing context B Using the context switch information in the IP VM switch buffer, it is possible to annotate performance metrics with “current VM” information by aligning performance record metric bookmarks with those in the IP VM switch buffer. Local triggers enable performance metric post processing to associate precise performance metric counts with a VM since the count is written to memory using the local trigger. Estimating the performance metric counts is possible by using the records of the periodic samples that happen before and after the timestamp associated with the VM switch by assigning counts using ratio of time differences between the timestamps of the two periodic samples and the VM switch

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) timestamp. However, accuracy cannot be guaranteed since this approach assumes similar performance utilization between VMs.
### 9.12.2 Functional Description
#### 9.12.2.1 IPs Utilizing HWPMs
Table 9.97 IP PERFMON Count The number of PERFMONs assigned to each IP utilizing HWPMs are shown below. Maximum PERFMON Event Clock (MHz) Total PERFM ONs IP PERFMON Count (per IP instance) IP Instanc e Count (numbe r RPGs) VI ISP VIC OFA PVA NVDLA MGBE SCF NVDEC NVENC PCIE DISPLAY PMA MSS CHANNEL GPU HUB ISO/NISO HUBs MCF TOTAL N/A N/A IP PERFMON Interface

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) IP instance utilizing HWPMs instance PERFMUX(s) using a specification file build flow process. IPs implement PERFMUX select and enable via local registers using appropriate PERFMUX register template. Performance monitor events and grouping are described in the specification file. Event toggling frequency to PERFMUX must not exceed frequency of PERMON clock capturing PERFMUX output. IP Local Trigger Interface IPs implementing local PERFMON triggers create Local Trigger registers whose fields are output to Remote Perfmon Group (RPG), as outlined in the Performance Trigger Considerations section. RPG connects trigger and bookmark as a common input to all PERFMONs in RPG. The following IPs implement local triggers: VI ISP PVA VIC OFA NVDEC NVENC NVDLA IPs create a level trigger lasting for a minimum of three la_clk cycles. RPG samples local triggers A and B from IP using LA clock and create single active high pulse when inputs transition from zero to one. IP Engine Trigger Interface IPs implementing engine triggers create engine trigger registers and output register bits PMA_ENGINE_START and PMA_ENGINE_STOP to RPG, as outlined in the SoC PMA Engine Triggers section. The following IPs implement engine triggers: VI ISP PVA VIC OFA NVDEC NVENC NVDLA MGBE PCIe DISPLAY

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) IPs create a level trigger lasting for a minimum of three la_clk cycles. RPG samples PMA_ENGINE_START and PMA_ENGINE_STOP from IP using LA clock and create single active high pulse when inputs transition from zero to one.
##### 9.12.2.1.1 HWPM Blocks
Remote PERFMON Group (RPG) Sub-blocks RPGs are be comprised of the following units: HWPM PERFMON(s) HWPM HUB APB interface APB-to-PRIV shim (connect APB to PERFMON PRIV register block) Register block (one per PERFMON) Split FIFO output for clock and voltage domain crossing (CDC and VDC) Trigger shim (covert positive edge level signal to single pulse for local and engine triggers) RPG Apertures RPG has single aperture group PERFMON: 4KB per PERFMON PERFMON apertures must be contiguous within RPG and between RPGs. RPG Clocks, Resets and Power Gate Clamps RPG uses up to three resets: pg_clamp_en for single power partition pg_clamp_en for multiple power partitions Referred to as kitchen sink pg_clamp_en Global HWPM reset All RPG logic utilizes ASYNC reset flops. RPG reset instructions vary based on the RPG power partition configuration. The list below describes the reset method for the different RPG power partition configuration. It is the responsibility of the RPG designer to understand which configuration applies to a given RPG. Single power partition PERFMONs and HUB reset equation: - Global HWPM reset AND pg_clamp_en PERFMON and HUB power gate:

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) - pg_clamp_en Example: PVA Multiple power partitions with HUB power gated PERFMON reset equation: - Global HWPM reset AND pg_clamp_en HUB reset equation: - Global HWPM reset AND kitchen sink pg_clamp_en PERFMON power gate: - pg_clamp_en HUB power gate: - kitchen sink pg_clamp_en Example: PCIe System Router Sub-blocks SYSTEM ROUTER is comprised of the following units: HWPM SYS ROUTER APB interface APB-to-PRIV shim (connect APB to SYS ROUTER PRIV register blocks) Performance Monitor Accumulator (PMA) Sub-blocks PMA is comprised of the following units: GPU HWPM PMA FBHUB-to-AXICIF shim APB interface APB-to-PRIV shim (connect APB to PMA PRIV register blocks) TSC-to-ptimer shim (converts serial-to-parallel data prior to GPU HWPM PMA) SYS Router and PMA Apertures SYS ROUTER and PMA contains the following apertures: 512B SYS ROUTER aperture 8KB PMA aperture RPG, SYS ROUTER and PMA apertures are not contiguous SYS Router and PMA Clocks and Reset SYS ROUTER and PMA uses single clock and reset: Clock: LA clock

Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM) Reset: Global HWPM reset Cross Triggers PMA supports global input and output trigger. The trigger has the following characteristics: Trigger generation Initiator PMA sources trigger Trigger is edge-based Initiator can use any trigger mode and mix start, stop, and PMA pulse Clock domain crossing can lose triggers if triggers are issued too fast Initiator PMA record contains correct trigger counters (start, stop, total) Trigger capture Target PMA captures trigger Configure TESLA trigger mode and enable remote PMA engine trigger (start) Target PMA record will not have correct start and stop but will have correct total count Target does not need to enable PMA record. If triggers are not lost due to clock domain crossing, then TOTAL_TRIG_RCV will match for all PERFMONs. Destination of PMA output global trigger is GPU PMA
### 9.12.3 Programming Guidelines
Programming of the SoC HWPM path is performed as a static configuration across all IP for a given monitoring period. HWPM context save and restore in SoC clients will not be supported. The following programming sequence is recommended for HWPM path setup and teardown: Setup HWPM path Allocate buffering for performance monitor records Enable clocks for IP to avoid hanging system Via a function call BPMP driver - Program PERFMON registers for IPs being monitored Program PERFMUX registers for IPs being monitored Program HWPM SYS ROUTER and PMA Bind the PMA buffer Enable PERFMONs for IPs being monitored Execute use case(s) Post process performance monitor records Teardown HWPM path Disable PMA triggers Disable all PERFMONs

Always-On Cluster (AON) and SPE Wait for PERFMONS, ROUTER, and PMA to idle. Disable PMA streaming Toggle (on – off) global HWPM reset De-allocate buffers The SoC HWPMs are programmed via the SoC HWPM driver which is separate from IP drivers. Given that both IP and SoC HWPM driver are accessing the same aperture, rules for register access must be established. Rules for IP register access in IP space are as follows: IP driver never accesses HWPM PERFMUX register Accomplished via deny-listing HWPM PERFMUX register HWPM SoC driver only accesses HWPM PERFMUX register Accomplished via allow-listing HWPM access space The SoC HWPM software tool stack will support the following configurations: Temporal and range-based profiling Graphics and compute software stacks Architectural and developer tool software stacks SoC and GPU profiling in isolation SoC and GPU profiling combined
