# 0 : Add the SR latch in the filter. 1: Do not add the SR Latch in the filter. If the delay filter is not enabled, the input before the green box goes directly into the mux (shown in blue in the Wake Signaling Logic figure) if debounce filter is enabled. Otherwise, it goes directly into the synchronizer. The line shown in red in the Wake Signaling Logic figure highlights this path.

- Wake Register Isolation
- Each of these wake events can be assigned to a specific tier by configuring the
WAKE_AOWAKE_TIER0/1/2_WAKE_ROUTING registers. All the SCRs are set up during boot. Afterwards, the wake configuration registers are set up before any power state is enabled on any target processor. So, any processor can own the Tier0/1/2 wake configurations. The only exception is Tier 0 wakes.
- The SCRs are allocated for each wake event. These SCRs apply to the WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_x,
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_x and WAKE_AOWAKE_STATUS_x registers (all of these registers are
wake event specific). Any Tier 0 wake that occurs while the system is in SC7 cannot be de-asserted.
- The WAKE_AOWAKE_STATUS_x register cannot be cleared, if owned by BPMP/CPU. Hence, during
boot, SCRs for Tier0 wakes should be set up in such a way that SPE can have access to all the Tier 0 wake-specific registers. In summary, each wake event can be assigned to a specific owner group through its corresponding SCR setting. The MASK/STATUS bits (available as separate registers from a write perspective) corresponding to the wake event can also be assigned to their own groups matching the wake event ownership.
- Tier 1 and Tier 2 Wakes as SPE Interrupts
- An interrupt (pmc2vic_intr) can be raised to tie SPE on a valid wake by setting
- WAKE_AOWAKE_TIER1/2_CTRL_0_INT_EN. This notifies the SPE that a Tier1 or 2 wake occurred
leading to the SC7 exit.

- PMC Functional Description
##### 4.2.2.5.5 Wake Routing
The wake routing logic of the wake engine uses the tier information associated with each of the wake events to route them to the desired destination. Interrupts generated by always-on peripherals, while available as potential system wake events, are actively consumed by an AO processor like the SPE. This usage of the AO peripheral interrupt is independent of whether the SoC is powered off or not. The diagram below captures the global view of wake events and the AO peripheral interrupts and how they are routed in the system.
**Figure 4.27 Wake/Interrupt Routing**
- Though hardware provides a mechanism to distinguish between Tier 1 and Tier 2 wakes, the
software architecture does not support Tier 1 wake events. All SC7 wake events are configured as Tier 2 wakes.
##### 4.2.2.5.6 Wake Event List
The ground rules for routing AO cluster interrupts as internal wake events are:
- If the interrupt originates in a non power-gated module, it must be directly routed to the
Wake Engine, even if it is going to the AON-VIC.
- All interrupts going to LIC (but not going to the AON-VIC) must be directly routed to the
Wake Engine.

- PMC Functional Description
Non-interrupt events (that neither go to the AON-VIC nor to the LIC) that need to trigger a wake must be directly routed to the Wake Engine.
- Wake
- Event#
- RTL Signal
- Internal/
- External
- Description
wake0
- PEX_L2_CLKREQ_N
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake1 pex_wake_n
- EXT
- PCI device wake Master
wake2
- AO_RETENTION_N
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake3 sdmmc1_dat1
- EXT
- SDIO interrupt
wake4
- SOC_GPIO54
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake5 sdmmc3_dat1
- EXT
- SDIO interrupt
wake6 sdmmc4_dat1
- EXT
- SDIO interrupt (in SDIO usage case)
wake7 uart4_cts
- EXT
- In band UART wake (for BT)
wake8
- SOC_GPIO11
- EXT
- Wi-Fi Wake AP
wake9
- SOC_GPIO13
- EXT
- BT Wake AP
wake10
- BATT_OC
- EXT
- Battery Over-Current Interrupt
wake11
- QSPI0_IO3
- EXT
- NFC wake AP
wake12
- SOC_GPIO30
- EXT
- Audio codec Interrupt
wake13
- SOC_GPIO31
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake14
- NVDBG_SEL
- EXT
- Headset Detect Interrupt
wake15
- SOC_GPIO33
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake16 directdc1_in
- EXT
- Debug connector wake
wake17
- EQOS_SMA_MDIO
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake18
- QSPI1_CS_N
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake19
- QSPI1_IO3
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake20
- SOC_GPIO08
- EXT
- EQOS interrupt
wake21
- GEN8_I2C_SDA
- EXT
- I2C master
wake22 cam_i2c_sda
- EXT
- I2C master
wake23 qspi0_cs_n
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake24 pmu_int_n
- EXT
- PMIC Interrupt
wake25
- SAFE_STATE
- EXT
- Wireless Charger Interrupt/USB type C
wake26 vcomp_alert
- EXT
- Voltage Comparator Interrupt/INA Overcurrent Interrupt

- PMC Functional Description
- Wake
- Event#
- RTL Signal
- Internal/
- External
- Description
wake27 pwr_i2c_sda
- EXT
- I2C master
wake28
- EQOS_RX_CTL
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake29 power_on
- EXT
- Power ON/OFF Button
wake30
- SOC_GPIO03
- EXT
- HOME Button
wake31 gen1_i2c_sda
- EXT
- I2C master
wake32
- PEX_L5_CLKREQ_N
- EXT
- PCIe wake
wake33
- UART1_CTS
- EXT
- In band UART wake (for GPS)
wake34
- SOC_GPIO04
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake35
- SOC_GPIO20
- EXT
- Always-on Temperature Sensor Interrupt
wake36
- SOC_GPIO05
- EXT
- ALS/Proximity Sensor Interrupt
wake37
- SOC_GPIO06
- EXT
- Motion Sensor Interrupt
wake38
- SOC_GPIO23
- EXT
- Voice Wake Interrupt
wake39
- SPI2_CS0
- EXT
- GPS Pulse-Per-Second
wake40
- SOC_GPIO21
- EXT
- GPS Interrupt
wake41
- GEN2_I2C_SDA
- EXT
- I2C master
wake42 can1_din
- EXT
- Can Bus1 Inband Wake
wake43 can0_din
- EXT
- Can Bus0 Inband Wake
wake44
- SPI3_SCK
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake45
- SPI1_CS0
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake46
- CAN0_WAKE
- EXT
- Can Bus0 Outband Wake
wake47
- CAN1_ERR
- EXT
- Can Bus1 Error Interrupt
wake48
- CAN1_WAKE
- EXT
- Can Bus1 Outband Wake
wake49
- CAN0_ERR
- EXT
- Can Bus0 Error Interrupt
wake50
- SPI1_CS1
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake51
- SOC_GPIO22
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake52 uart2_cts
- EXT
- In band UART wake (for Primary MODEM)
wake53 uart5_cts
- EXT
- In band UART wake (for Secondary MODEM)
wake54
- PEX_L1_CLKREQ_N
- EXT
- Primary MODEM Interrupt/SDMMC1 CD

- PMC Functional Description
- Wake
- Event#
- RTL Signal
- Internal/
- External
- Description
wake55
- PEX_L4_CLKREQ_N
- EXT
- Primary MODEM Out band Wake
wake56
- SPI3_CS0
- EXT
- Primary Cold Boot Alert Interrupt/SDMMC3 CD
wake57
- SATA_DEV_SLP
- EXT
- General-purpose wake
wake58
- SPI3_CS1
- EXT
- General-purpose wake
wake59
- SOC_GPIO52
- EXT
- General-purpose wake
wake60
- DP_AUX_CH0_HPD
- EXT
- HDMI/DP port0 HPD
wake61 usb_vbus_en0
- EXT
- USB OC 0
wake62 usb_vbus_en1
- EXT
- USB OC 1
wake64
- SOC_GPIO55
- EXT
- General-purpose wake
wake65
- PEX_L3_CLKREQ_N
- EXT
- General Purpose Wake
wake67
- SOC_GPIO00
- EXT
- Volume_Up
wake68
- SOC_GPIO01
- EXT
- Volume_Down
wake69
- SOC_GPIO02
- EXT
- Battery low
wake70
- HDMI_CEC
- EXT
- HDMI CEC Wake
wake72
- Reserved
- INT
- Reserved
wake73 rtc_irq
- INT
- RTC wake
wake74
- Reserved
- INT
wake75 aowdt_wake
- INT
wake76 wake2pmc_xusb_syste m_wakeup_0
- INT
- Wake events from SS wake logic for all three SS ports
wake77 wake2pmc_xusb_syste m_wakeup_1
- INT
wake78 wake2pmc_xusb_syste m_wakeup_2
- INT
- Even though the name says its wake2pmc_xusb_system_wakeup_2,
the event is result of OR of wake2pmc_xusb_system_wakeup_2 and wake2pmc_xusb_system_wakeup_3 wake79 utmip0_line_wakeup_e vent;
- INT
- Wake events from USB2 sleepwalk logic
wake80 utmip1_line_wakeup_e vent;
- INT
wake81 utmip2_line_wakeup_e vent;
- INT
wake82 utmip3_line_wakeup_e vent;
- INT
- Wake event from HSIC sleepwalk logic

- PMC Functional Description
- Wake
- Event#
- RTL Signal
- Internal/
- External
- Description
wake83 sw_wake_trigger0
- INT
- Wake triggered by WE_SW_WAKE_0_TRIGGER register write by SPE
wake84 spe_wdt_expiry_3
- INT
- Third expiry from SPE WDT
wake85
- AOVIC_fiq
- INT
- FIQ input of SPE-VIC
wake86
- AOVIC_irq
- INT
- IRQ input of SPE-VIC
wake87
- AON_GPIO_int_0
- INT
gpioaon_rupt from GPIO controller wake88
- AON_GPIO_int_1
- INT
gpioaon_misc_rupt from GPIO controller wake89 vfmon_int
- INT
- VFMON interrupt
wake90
- AOPM_int
- INT
- Interrupt flavor routed to VIC from AOPM
wake91
- SPE_WAKE_ON_IPC
- INT
- Outstanding transactions to the SNIC from SPE causing a wake
trigger from SC7. Aggregated with HSP outbound interrupts. wake92 pmc2lic_intr
- INT
pmc2lic intr wake93 ao_debug_wake
- INT
iLA wake OR'ed with spe_wdt_expiry_4 wake94
- AOPM2LIC_INTR
- INT
aopm2lic interrupt wake95
- AON_CAR_INTR
- INT
- AON car interrupt
##### 4.2.2.5.7 Combined Wake Events
- Certain wake events are combined outside of the masking supported though
WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W register in the wake engine. Specific cases are as follows:
- Wake events from AO mail boxes: Four mail boxes supported in SPE cluster can generate
individual wake events. These events are merged with the SPE_AUTO_WAKE (i.e., wake event from SPE due to outgoing transactions in SC7) to drive a specific SPE wake input to the
- WAKE engine. There are individual wake mask bits supported for the combined (OR ’Ed) mail
box wake event, and SPE_AUTO_WAKE. SPE_AUTO_WAKE is defeatured due to certain limitations in the AXI Blocking logic.
- AO debug wake: AO debug wake is an OR ‘ed version of iLA wake and SPE WDT expiry fourth
expiry.
- Xusb2wake_event 2: Due to limited number of wake events supported in hardware, wake 78
is OR-ed version of fourth wake event from XUSB (i.e., xusb2wake_event_3) and xusb2wake_event_2.

- PMC Functional Description
##### 4.2.2.5.8 Power Gate Control Sequencer
The following state diagram captures the high-level sequences executed by the PMC Power Gate Sequencer. The inputs triggering the PG Sequencer are: 1.
- Reset logic asserting reset_sd_remove_req. This is a specific request to PG sequencer to
remove shutdown controls when the L0/L1/L2 cold reset is de-asserted. A software power control request coming through a power domain-specific PMC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL register.
- Request from SC7 FSM (sc7_assert/remove_sd_req) to assert the shutdown controls for the
SRAMs in the VDD_CORE domain.
- Retention request from AOPM (pm2pmc_ret_Req). This is a request from the AOPM to put all
the AOPG RAMs in retention mode.
- Logic Power gating request from the AOPG hardware state machine in the PMC. The request
to the AOPG hardware FSM is sent by the AOPM Deep dormant state machine. 2. 3. 4. 5.
**Figure 4.28 Power Gating Sequencer**
The preceding figure is a generic state diagram that depicts all the possible transitions between logic and RAM power gating modes.
##### 4.2.2.5.9 Power Gated Partitions
- The following is a summary and general guideline of power controls leaving PMC. Power Gate
control FSM in PMC drives these controls through Software/Hardware hooks specified in earlier sections. 1.
- LOGIC_SLEEP Mode
- PMC provides LOGIC_SLEEP controls for all SoC, CV, DVD-D, and AON power domains of PG
type.

- PMC Functional Description
2.
- SRAM_SLEEP Mode
- PMC provides these controls for all SRAMs in the SoC, CV, DVD-D, and AON partitions. This
includes all types of PG domains. Note CVSRAM (FCM based, in CVNAS) controls are not driven from PMC.
- SRAM_RET Mode
- RET mode is supported only for RAMs in AO-PG and AO-NPG power domains that are sourced
from PMC. 3.
##### 4.2.2.5.10 SRAM Control from PMC
The preceding controls are sequenced along with the partition logic power-gating controls. This section captures the specific approach supported in PMC to accomplish efficient power control of the partitions, with minimal wire usage.
##### 4.2.2.5.11 SRAM and Logic Power Mode Matrix
From a partition power-controlling perspective, there are three basic modes that are supported in the PMC so that the logic and SRAMs in a partition can be sequenced to the most desirable power state. These modes are:
- SRAM retention mode
- SRAM sleep mode
- Logic sleep mode
The table below captures the allowed power states for SRAM and logic in a partition.
- Logic Sleep
- SRAM Sleep
- SRAM Retention
- Notes
- None
- RAM Retention
- RAM Sleep
- Retention is don't care
- ILLEGAL
- RET+ LOGIC_SLEEP
- RAM SLEEP+ LOGIC SLEEP
- RAM SLEEP+ LOGIC SLEEP
All the allowed states for logic and SRAM can be entered by appropriately configuring the control registers in the PMC. If software makes an illegal request (where the logic power down is requested and SRAMs are not in low-power mode), the power gating hardware defaults this request to LOGIC_SLEEP = 1, SRAM_SLEEP = 1 case, and update the status register accordingly.

- PMC Functional Description
- Software checks the PMC_IMPL_<PART>_POWER_GATE_STATUS register to confirm the success of
the power gating request.
##### 4.2.2.5.12 AON Module Power Control
AON cluster contains SRAMs and power gated logic, similar to SoC partitions. However, there are subtle differences in the way power control is handled for these modules.
- AON SRAM Control
The following is the list of SRAMs supported in the power gated part of the AON cluster (AOPG). The PMC drives the individual SLEEP/RET controls for each of these SRAMs:
- L1 I and D-cache
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 0
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 1
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 2
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 3
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 4
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 5
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 6
- BTCM0 and BTCM1 bank 7
- CAN message RAM 0
- CAN message RAM 1
- Like the SoC SRAM controls, the the AO SRAM controls' default is to bring them up in the
functional mode at boot time. Once the system is active, the only way to put these RAMs in SLEEP mode, is through software hooks in the respective POWER_GATE_CONTROL register. SC7 transitions in hardware do not assert these controls for the AO SRAMs. In addition to the software hooks to put the AOPG RAMs in retention mode, the AOPM hardware implements a handshake with the PMC during AON low-power state transitions. The AONPG domain contains the MSS AO encryption RAM, the MSS scratch SRAM, and the PMC scratch SRAM. For these SRAMs, the PMC exposes all the SRAM control hooks (i.e., SRAM_SLEEP, SRAM_RET) to software. On receiving this request, the PMC PG controller starts sequencing the RAMs one after the other. Once the final RAM is put in the intended state, it sends an ack back to the AOPM.
- AON Logic PG Control
- The AON cluster supports one power gated domain. The AOPM makes use of the PMC power
gating sequencer to assert logic sleep controls to this power gated domain. The AOPM requests the PMC to control power through a dedicated hardware interface.

- PMC Functional Description
- PMC_IMPL_AO_PG_TIMERS register specifies the delay between the sleep and clamp signals for
AON logic. This power gating request to PMC occurs only when committed to is treated as one power domain (AONPG). A single clamp signal (hardware controlled) is driven by the PMC to the AO cluster to handle the isolation of power gated modules. Before the AOPM requests logic power gating to the PMC, the AO SRAMs are put in a low-power mode (SRAM Retention) through the AOPM RAM retention request, so that illegal SRAM scenarios are prevented.
#### 4.2.2.6 Pad Controls
The PMC sources the DPD controls for the MPIOs and I/O bricks in the system. There are two ways the pads are put into DPD mode. 1. 2.
- When the respective control bit is set by the software in IO_DPD_REQ register
- When SC7 mode is entered SC7 FSM ensures that all pads (except the DDR pads) are put into
DPD mode unless the DPD mode entry is specifically masked.
##### 4.2.2.6.1 Latching Support in the Pads
In the current pad designs, EN/A/E_PULLU/E_PULLD gets captured at the rising edge of SEL_DPD signal.
##### 4.2.2.6.2 DPD Control Details
1.
- PMC drives I/O rail-specific SEL_DPD signals. These signals are the primary source of the
latching control in the pads from a software point of view. IO_DPD_REQ register updates drive E_DPD and SEL_DPD in the required sequence.
- SEL_DPD signals driven by the DPD FSM in the PMC are OR’d with the DPD FSM driven
signals to drive the final set of signals seen by the pads (ensuring no illegal state of the pads (SEL_DPD = 0, E_DPD =1), even if the software does not exercise the IO_DPD_REQ controls.
- IO_DPD_OFF_MASK registers (PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD7_OFF_MASK and
- PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD8_OFF_MASK) are used to prevent entry into DPD mode of selected I/Os
in the AON domain. When the MASK bit is set the respective I/O is prevented from entering the DPD mode by a hardware request (from the SC7 FSM). The reset defaults of these registers are to mask the DPD entry for AO I/Os. 2. 3. The SEL_DPD controls are used to hold a pad in a fixed state until software has taken specific actions to reestablish the desired pin state from the pad driver point of view. Software can set multiple IO_DPD_REQ registers bits at the same time, indicating a request to put multiple I/Os into DPD. The CODE field of IO_DPD_REQ register indicates whether the transition is into or out of DPD modes. The PMC supports separate DPD sequencing logic for each IO_DPD_REQ register. There are eight such instances in the PMC. The PMC DPD sequencing logic services each set of controls concurrently until all pending requests are complete. Once a set of DPD sequencing is complete the respective bit is updated in the IO_DPD_STATUS register.

- PMC Functional Description
All the software driven XUSB pad controls and the corresponding registers are moved to XUSBAO. Only the global override from the SC7 FSM is driven to these pads from the PMC.
##### 4.2.2.6.3 PWR_DET Controls
PWR_DET controls are used to indicate if a pad is powered by 3.3V, 1.8V, or 1.2V.
- The detection mechanism has been removed from the pads and replaced by software configured
registers (at reset, these registers indicate that the pad is powered by the higher of the supported power supply options as this is the electrically safe setting). E_18V_PWR – This register content specifies if the respective I/O rail is powered by 1.2V (when the respective register bit is 0) or 1.8V (when the respective register bit is 1). E_33V_PWR – This register content specifies if the respective I/O rail is powered by 1.8V (when the respective register bit is 0) or 3.3V (when the respective register bit is 1).
#### 4.2.2.7 Voltage Monitoring Support
- PMC supports hooks to monitor VDD_CORE, VDD_CPU0/1 rail voltages, OSC, and 32 kHz clock
frequencies. Voltage monitoring is a power security feature where the voltage levels of specific rails are monitored and checked for following potential voltage violations:
- Under/over voltages with respect to the thresholds
- Glitches/Spikes
The following rails require voltage monitoring support. They are supported through the AVFS and PMC modules.
- VDD_CPU0/1
- VDD_CORE
For the AVFS core domains, a digital comparator is added in the CAR modules to check the ADC output against the preconfigured minimum and maximum threshold level and it outputs the voltage fault information. These faults are routed to PMC, which provides configuration registers to select the fault action (Reset/Interrupt) on any voltage violation. Each of the fault actions can be individually enabled.
#### 4.2.2.8 Clock Monitoring
##### 4.2.2.8.1 Safety Requirement for Clock Monitoring
- In automotive platforms, this SoC (when it is deemed safe by an external safety MCU) has a
mechanism where the critical clocks are constantly monitored for:

- PMC Functional Description
- DC faults
Frequency outside of expected ranges.
- Clock Monitoring Features
This frequency monitoring logic in the PMC is used to monitor the OSC and the 32 kHz clocks to detect the following violations: 1. 2. Clock is turned off (DC faults) while monitoring is enabled. Clock frequency is outside of programmed limits. Monitoring logic supports programmable options to generate an interrupt and/or reset and/or fault to the HSM on violations. Each of these resultant actions can be individually enabled.
##### 4.2.2.8.2 RO-Based Clock Monitoring
The mechanism to support OSC clock monitoring is based on an on-die oscillator, which provides the time base to check whether XTAL (or more commonly referred to as OSC) frequency is within expected limits. A module called VRefRO with higher accuracy level sources this clock.
#### 4.2.2.9 FSI Rail Clamp
PMC provides a clamp enable control for clamping the signals originating from FSI to AON and SoC domains. This clamp enable control is implemented on L2 cold reset. Asserted by reset default. De-asserted in hardware based on FSI enabling fuses.
- Fuse-based trigger is fsi_ram_repair_enable_OSC_sync || (fuse_valid_OSC_sync_staged &&
~opt_fsi_disable_OSC_sync).
- Opt_fsi_disable is the Floor sweeping fuse control. This FS fuse value does not take
effect until fuse sensing is done.
- For RAM repair operation, fsi clamp must be de-asserted. Whether RAM repair for FSI is
enabled or not is decided based on fsi_ram_repair_enable fuse. - - Note that this clamp is not software controllable. Like the DVD-D clamp, this clamp enable control also has test overrides i.e., jtag, bscan mode as mentioned in section Boundary Scan Override. To support SC7 with FSI OFF, FSI clamps will also be asserted during SC7 entry and de-assert on the SC7 exit i.e., the assertion/deassertion is controlled by the SC7 sequencer driven pmc2main_clamp.
- Note that FSI clamp does not have an early version for clock gating. There are no clock
crossings originating from FSI.

- PMC Functional Description
- Also, the pmc2main_clamp version used for FSI clamp toggling, does not have any DFD
overrides that bypass the assertion during SC7 debug modes.
#### 4.2.2.10 AO Power State
Multiple versions of the SC7 state are supported in PMC. As mentioned in the interface with AOPM for PG section, this is based on the level of power gating and/or clock gating supported in SPE cluster. The PMC interfaces to the AO PM (Always on Power Management module) to enforce the appropriate SC7-AON power state. The PMC holds off the power gating of AON logic unless SC7 entry is committed.
#### 4.2.2.11 CV Power State
##### 4.2.2.11.1 Default State of CV Logic and RAM Power Gating Controls
The default reset state of the CV logic power controls comes up power-gated on cold boot.
- Software power u-gates them using the partition-specific POWER_GATE_CONTROL register. The
default reset state of the RAM power controls is in SLEEP mode on cold boot. Software brings them out of SLEEP mode using the partition-specific POWER_GATE_CONTROL register post logic power ungating actions. During SC7, the PMC SC7 state machine does not control the RAM/logic states. Software brings the RAM and Logic up, once CV rail is powered up. The PMC does not drive any of the RAM power controls for CV-SRAM (FCM based). The local SRAM controller in the CV domain drives those controls.
##### 4.2.2.11.2 CV Clamp Control
- PMC supports the PMC_IMPL_CV_RG_CNTRL_0_CLAMP register in the PMC_IMPL page for CV rail
isolation. The reset default of this clamp asserts and clamps the interface. This control uses L2 cold reset
#### 4.2.2.12 CCPLEX Power State
PMC does not maintain the power/rail gate status indication for CPUs. There is no PMC involvement in controlling the CCPLEX-SRAM states.
#### 4.2.2.13 GPU SRAM Control
- PMC drives the rail-gating clamp control to the GPU. The controls clamp the GPU->SoC
crossings.PMC_IMPL_GPU_RG_CNTRL_0_RAIL_CLAMP is asserted by default. Boot software unclamps the interfaces once the GPU is powered up. This clamp is also on L2 cold reset. With the

- PMC Functional Description
merged SRAM rail in the iGPU, GVDD_POWERGODD is no longer needed. This is tied off in PMC. Also, the SD_ENTRY_DONE and SD_EXIT_DONE are no longer needed in PMC.
#### 4.2.2.14 SRAM Controls
The 16FF-LR single rail NV compiler RAMs support the following power-saving options:
- Sleep mode: Reduces leakage by power gating both the periphery and the bit cell array. The
context is lost. Retention mode: Peripheral logic is power-gated while the bit cell array is left powered on.
- Table 4.20 SRAM Power Control Matrix
- SRAM power
controls
- SLEEP Mode
- Retention Mode
- Functional Mode
- Usage
- SLEEP_EN [7:0]
8xFF 8xFF 8x00
- Used to control the RAM power-
gaters.
- RET_EN
- Used for enabling retention
mode.
##### 4.2.2.14.1 RAM Dump
PMC supports a hardware mechanism to flush the CPU Caches and put the DRAM in self-refresh, so that hard hang scenarios can be debugged. A part of the RAMDUMP FSM is in MSS_AON. The PMC RAMDUMP FSM requests MSS_AON to put DDR bricks in the DPD and the DRAM in self-refresh. MSS_AO acknowledges to the PMC, once the requested actions are complete. Since the HSM can request for L2 cold reset, RAM Dump can be enabled on both the WDT and HSM triggered L2 cold resets using PMC_IMPL_RAMDUMP_CTL_STATUS_0[RAMDUMP_EN] setting.
- Both Cache flush request and DRAM self-refresh request from PMC are qualified with
RAMDUMP_EN control in order to avoid single point failure cases and to reduce the failure rate.
#### 4.2.2.15 Power-on-Detector (POD)
Power-on-detector cells are deployed for various core rails in the chip. This cell detects the power off to on event of the power rail it is powered by and take the following actions: Request for a L0 system-wide reset. This request is also sent to CAR to trigger a reset for the respective rail domain. Send a fault indication to HSM ( using Error Collator). Send an indication to PSC for its turtle mode.

- PMC Functional Description
The configuration registers corresponding to all the PODs are placed in PMC_IMPL page. At a high level,
- PMC implements a reset masking control per rail domain with POD. All the Reset masking
registers in PMC are protected under a single SCR. They are routed to the CAR logic in respective rail domains for generation of domain-specific resets.
- PMC also implement a POD_GLOBAL_MONITOR register, which contains the status of error
indications from the frontend and backend logic inside POD.
- Note that there is a second set of monitoring trigger registers that are present in the
respective rail domains. In PMC, the monitoring trigger register for VDD_RTC POD is implemented.
- For pre-IST software to mask the reset request from PODs, a sample and hold JTAG logic is
implemented. This is required for IST operation, where software will program the POD bypass software register and IST software will sample-and-hold the value. The reset enable controls are set to ENABLE state once the system enters SC7 state. (i.e., once SoC rail is powered down. The SC7 sequencer state indicating clamp assertion is used for updating these registers in HW. Global monitoring registers are reset by the signal whose status is logged in the register. Local monitoring registers for VRTC_POD can be on L2 cold reset. The raw reset request (the signal that is not qualified by the reset enable control) from each POD is routed as a fault to the HSM through AON Error collator and to PSC for turtle mode.
#### 4.2.2.16 Security Canary Path Monitor (SCPM)
To detect the glitches on the critical clock and voltage rail domains, SCPMs are deployed in the chip. This module triggers a reset request if clock runs fast enough to break a timing path modeled in SCPM or when a glitch occurs. L0 async reset is generated out of the reset request from SCPM. In PMC, SCPM is instanced to detect glitches on the OSC clock in VDD_RTC domain. This instance will be referred to as AON_XTAL_SCPM. In addition to the AON_XTAL_SCPM and its registers, PMC houses registers for the SOC_XTAL_SCPM, which will be placed near fuse controller block in SoC.
- This is to ensure that its configuration settings are retained across SC7 and that the
- SOC_XTAL_SCPM can immediately start functioning once warm reset is de-asserted during SC7
exit.
- In addition to AON_XTAL_SCPM’s ERROR_OUT generated within PMC, it also receives ERROR OUT
indications from SOC_XTAL_SCPM, BPMP_R5_SCPM, consolidated indication from FSI SCPMs and PSC_SE_SCPM for L0 async reset generation. This ERROR_OUT that is received by PMC is the error signal qualified with IOEnable and DFTEnable. This input is further qualified with RESET_EN config bit (PMC_IMPL_SCPM_RESET_EN register(with a separate SCR)) before using it in system reset generation logic.

- PMC Functional Description
During SC7 entry, AON_XTAL_SCPM input clock is gated using the osc_stable indication from SC7
- HW sequencer. The SCPM clock comes up once osc_stable goes high during SC7 exit. The reset
enable controls are set to ENABLE state once the system enters SC7 state. (i.e once SoC rail is powered down. The SC7 sequencer state indicating early clamp assertion is used for updating these registers in hardware.
#### 4.2.2.17 Storage Space
##### 4.2.2.17.1 PMC Scratch Registers
PMC supports always-on storage in the form of secure and non-secure scratch registers. This SRAM module supports its own power control knobs through a PMC register. This entire scratch SRAM is in RET in the SC state. In addition to SRAM-based scratch, PMC also supports flop-based scratch registers: (PMC_SCRATCH_0_0 and PMC_SCRATCH_0_1). These are specifically used for storing software flags used in SC7 flow.
- SECURE_SCRATCH4-7: Reserved
- SECURE_SCRATCH8-15: Reserved
- SECURE_SCRATCH16-23: These enable VDD_RTC rail monitoring, 256 bits i.e., eight 32K flop-
based registers are added in PMC. PMC supports a 384 x 32-sized scratch RAM. In addition, in order to enable half-word parity, the scratch size is no w 384 x 34 bits.
- Table 4.21 PMC Scratch Organization
- Array name
- RAM/ flop
- Number of regs
- Secure
#Total SCRs
- Software REGISTER
- NAME
- SECURE_SCRATCH_
- BL
- RAM
- Yes
- SCRATCH_SECURE_BL_S
- CRATCH_[0..15]
- SECURE_SCRATCH_
- MTS
- RAM
- Yes
- SCRATCH_SECURE_MTS_
- SCRATCH_[0..9]
- NON_SECURE_SCR
- ATCH
- RAM
- No
- SCRATCH_SCRATCH_
[0..136]
- SECURE_RSV_SCRA
- TCH
- RAM
- Yes
- SECURE_RSV
[0..110]_SCRATCH_[0,1]
- SCRATCH0
- Flop
- Yes
- SCRATCH_SCRATCH0_0
- SCRATCH1
- Flop
- Yes
- SCRATCH_SCRATCH1_0
- SECURE_SCRATCH
- Flop
- Yes
- SCRATCH_SECURE_SCRA
- TCH [4..7]_0

- PMC Functional Description
- Array name
- RAM/ flop
- Number of regs
- Secure
#Total SCRs
- Software REGISTER
- NAME
- BONDOUT_MIRROR
- Flop
- Yes
- SCRATCH_BONDOUT_MI
- RROR [0..4]_0
- SCRATCH_ECO
- Flop
- Yes
- SCRTACH_SCRATCH
[0..2]_ECO_0
- SECURE_SCRATCH
- Flop
- Yes
- SCRATCH_SECURE_SCRA
- TCH [8..15]_0
- SECURE_SCRATCH
- Flop
- Yes
- SCRATCH_SECURE_SCRA
- TCH [16..23]_0
#### 4.2.2.18 LED Blink and Breathing
The PMC provides the control for blinking LED in runtime and SC7 usage. The blinking control is a
- PWM signal. To generate a PWM signal, the PMC has a counter with two programmable values
indicating the ON and OFF periods (in multiple of 16 cycles of the 32.768 kHz clock). The counter is 16 bits long, for a maximum ON period of 215 * 16 / 32.768 103 or about 16 seconds and OFF period of 216 * 16 / 32.768 103 or about 32 seconds.
**Figure 4.29 LED Blink Functionality**
##### 4.2.2.18.1 Muxed Blink and Breathing (Soft Blink)
LED Breathing functionality is multiplexed onto the BLINK outputs as shown in the following figure. LED Breathing controller basically tunes the LED such that it slowly ramps up and ramps down.

- PMC Programming Guidelines
“Blink_en” is used to select between blink and Led breathing (Soft blink) as shown in the table below. If both “Blink_en” and “Led_breathing_en” are set, then blink functionality gets the priority.
**Figure 4.30 Muxed Blink Scheme**

