# 0 to 15

- SLOT_ENABLES
0x01 0x01 0x01 0x03 0x01
- Note 1
- Note 2
Note 1: In NW mode, there can only be one active slot. So 0x01, 0x02, 0x04, 0x08 are allowed values. Note 2: In TDM mode, there is no restriction on what or how many slots are enabled. The only restriction on the programming sequence is that all other registers must be programmed first before the Tx/Rx channels are enabled (which is done by setting XFER_EN_TX/XFER_EN_RX).
- Programming I2S to Work in Loopback Mode
1. Set the (I2S_CTRL_LPBK = 1). The rest of the programming is the same as if I2S is not in the loopback mode.
#### 7.7.3.11 DMIC Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.11.1 Minimum Required Guidelines
1. Ensure that the DMIC is in a disabled state (after being used previously):
- Check if (DMIC_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0)
Configure the DMIC: 2. a.
- Configure TxCIF parameters
- Populate DMIC_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers
Configure the OSR:
- Populate DMIC_CTRL_OSR register
b.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
3.
- Enable the DMIC module
Set (DMIC_ENABLE = 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (DMIC_ENABLE = 0). 4. It is mandatory to program client bits of TxCIF to 24 bit as algorithm works in 24-bit mode. AXBAR bits can be programmed as per requirement.
##### 7.7.3.11.2 Optional Guidelines
While configuring the DMIC controller (step 2 of the section above) one can choose to configure the following optional features: 1.
- Configure whether to receive the left channel data followed by right channel data or the
other way around: Use the DMIC_CTRL_LRSEL_POLARITY register field. Configure whether to receive data in both left and right channels or just the left channel or the right channel:
- Use the DMIC_CTRL_CHANNEL_SELECT register field
DMIC has three filters in the data path, namely the DC removal filter, Sinc Correction filter and a generic low pass filter. These can be enabled using bits DCR_ENABLE, SC_ENABLE,
- LP_ENABLE respectively, in the register DMIC_DBG_CTRL_0
2. 3. a.
- Each filter is made up of one or two biquads. Each filter has a filter gain in signed Q23
format configurable using the register <Filter_name>_FILTER_GAIN_0
- Associated with each biquad are five registers, namely
<Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_0_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_1_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_2_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_3_0, and <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_4_0 (all in signed Q23 format). They correspond to biquad coefficients b0, b1, b2, a1, a2. Coefficent a0, of course, is assumed to be 1. b.
#### 7.7.3.12 Mixer Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.12.1 Guidelines for Programming Mixer Inputs
In general, the Mixer's inputs are all independent of each other. The programming guidelines are given for configuring and using a generic input. The guidelines are applicable for any of the Mixer's inputs. 1. Configure the CIF parameters. Populate the register MIXER_AXBAR_RX <i>_CIF_CTRL.
- Make gain application related configurations (see Programming Gain Application below.)
- Make peak value related configuration
- Configure the register MIXER_AXBAR_RX<i>_PEAK_CTRL
- Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10
2. 3.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.3.12.2 Guidelines for Programming Mixer Outputs
1. Ensure the output to be used is in a disabled state (After being used in the previous use case) Check if (MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0).
- Configure the adder associated with this output by enabling which inputs to be used with
this adder
- Populate the register MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_ADDER_CONFIG
- Ensure that the Mixer module is in an enabled state
- Check if (MIXER_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1)
2. 3. a.
- If not, enable the Mixer module
Set (MIXER_ENABLE = 1).
- Ensure the module is done initializing
Check if (MIXER_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). b. 4.
- Enable the Mixer output
Set (MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_ENABLE = 1).
- Note: j = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5
##### 7.7.3.12.3 Programming Gain Application
All gain-related configurations reside in a RAM as shown below.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.76 Gain Configurations in RAM**
- To write values into this RAM, one must use the AHUBRAMCTL_GAIN_CONFIG_RAM_CTRL,
- AHUBRAMCTL_GAIN_CONFIG_RAM_DATA. Refer to the Programming Module RAMs subsection for
programming guidelines on writing/reading RAM locations. The programming sequence for writing new gain parameters is:

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Make sure the hardware is not in the middle of updating its internal variables with the old set of gain related parameters:
- Ensure (MIXER_AXBAR_RX<i>_STATUS_CNFG_BUSY == 0), where i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or
10. Program new gain value corresponding to other parameters if needed. Write to 0xf offset register to trigger the hardware to start using a new set of values. 1. 2. 3. Note:
- The 'Duration_inv_1byN3' should be calculated by software from the value of
'Duration_N3' (N3) as follows: Duration_inv_1byN3 =(1 / N3) * 2 prescalar * 2 31 , where prescalar = 6. a.
- Polynomial coefficients (Cn_p*-*, offset is 0x0 to 0x8)
Data formats: Q8.24 (2's complement). Range: -128 to 128-2-24 . b. Gain value's data formats: Q16.16 (2's complement). Range: -32768 to 32768-2-16 . c.
##### 7.7.3.12.4 Reading Peak Values
The peak value statuses are available in a RAM as shown below.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.77 Peak Values**
- To read a value from this RAM, one must use the registers AHUBRAMCTL_PEAKM_CTRL and
- AHUBRAMCTL_PEAKM_DATA. Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for
programming guidelines on writing/reading RAM locations.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.13 AMX Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.13.1 Mandatory Guidelines
1.
- Ensure that the AMX is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case)
Check (AMX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the AMX. 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see the "ACIF Programming
- Guidelines" section for more details
- Populate AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL0, AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL1,
- AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL2,
AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL3 and AMX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Enable the inputs that are used for making the output frame
Use register fields AMX_CTRL_RX<i>_EN, where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
- Program the byte RAM map
Use AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL and AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA registers.
- Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for programming guidelines on
reading RAM locations.
- Program the "wait-on" conditions for AMX
- Configure the AMX_CTRL_RX_DEP, AMX_CTRL_MSTR_RX_NUM register fields
- Configure which of the bytes in the output stream contain data
- Configure the AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN0 register for the LSB 32 bytes and the
AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN1 register for the MSB 32 bytes. b. c. d. e. 3. Enable the AMX module. Set (AMX_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module is done initializing before sending data to it. Ensure (AMX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module. Set (AMX_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.
##### 7.7.3.13.2 Optional Guidelines
1. Configure AMX to stop accepting new input frames right after an input is disabled (otherwise
- AMX waits until all the continuous incoming frames are received and then disables)
Set field(s) ( AMX_CTRL.RX<i>_FORCE_DISABLE = ENABLE ), where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
- For auto disable and auto enable feature, program the IDLE count first in
- RX<i>_CTRL_FRAME_PERIOD_0_IDLE_CNT register, where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4, then program
AMX_CYA_0 [0]. Both need be performed before enabling AMX.
- Note: Refer to the "Common Programming Guidelines" section for information on using some
optional features in the AMX (and all other modules).
- Configure Audio CIF control registers AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH0_CTRL,
- AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH1_CTRL, AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH2_CTRL, AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH3_CTRL, and
2. 3.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- AMX_AUDIOCIF_OUT_CTRL according to the guidelines given in the "ACIF Programming
Guidelines" subsection.
- Configure the CH_DEP parameter field in the AMX_CTRL_0 register to determine whether to
wait for all enabled channels to have data before transfer or start sending the data when any one of the input channels has data (WT_ON_ALL and WT_ON_ANY).
- Configure the MSTR_CH_NUM register for designated master channel, so that if the data is
available on a particular channel, the output can be sent.
- Enable the AMX output by setting BYTE_EN in AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN0 and
AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN1. For Byte RAMCTL programming: 4. 5. 6. 7.
- For programming RAM with the HW_ADR_EN bit cleared in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register, set the RAM Offset in the RAM_ADR field of the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register and set data in the DATA field in the
AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA register.
- For programming RAM with the HW_ADR_EN bit set in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register, set the RAM Offset in the RAM_ADR field of the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register to 0 and set data in the DATA field in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA register. Hardware auto-increments the RAM_ADR after
each write.
- Write sequence for single location write (NOT in burst/sequential)
1.
- Set address in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0; make sure that (SEQ_ACCESS_EN == 0) for
single write/read (NOT in burst).
- Set RW field in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0
- Set ADDR_INIT_EN field - optional for write
Program (AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA_0 = data to write). 2. 3. 4. Read sequence for single location read (NOT in burst/sequential): 1.
- Set address in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0; make sure that (SEQ_ACCESS_EN == 0) for
single write/read (NOT in burst).
- Reset RW field in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0
- Set ADDR_INIT_EN field
- Read the data from AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA_0
2. 3. 4.
#### 7.7.3.14 ADX Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.14.1 Mandatory Guidelines
1. Ensure that the ADX is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (ADX_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the ADX: 2.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters; see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details.
- Populate ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL0, ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL1,
- ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL2,
ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL3 and ADX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL registers. Enable the inputs that are used for making the output frame: Use register fields ADX_CTRL_TX<j>_EN, where j = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Program the byte RAM map:
- Use ADX_AUDIORAMCTL_ADX_CTRL and ADX_AUDIORAMCTL_ADX_DATA registers. Refer
to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for programming guidelines on reading RAM locations. Configure which of the bytes in the input stream contain data:
- Configure the ADX_IN_BYTE_EN0 register for the LSB 32 bytes and the ADX_IN_BYTE_EN1
register for the MSB 32 bytes. b. c. d. 3. Enable the ADX module: Set (ADX_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module is done initializing. Poll (ADX_STATUS.ENABLE _STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (ADX_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.
##### 7.7.3.14.2 Optional Guidelines
- Configure ADX to stop generating new input frames right after an output is disabled
(otherwise ADX waits until all the continuous incoming frames are received and then disables) Set field(s) ( ADX_CTRL_0.TX<j>_FORCE_DISABLE = ENABLE), where j = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
#### 7.7.3.15 SFC Programming Guidelines
1. Ensure that the SFC is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (SFC_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the SFC: 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details) Populate SFC_AXBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL and SFC_AXBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Configure input/output sampling frequencies
Populate SFC_AXBAR_RX_FREQ_FS_IN and SFC_AXBAR_TX_FREQ_FS_OUT registers. b. 3.
- There are hardcoded coefficients for commonly used frequency conversions (see below). But
for other frequency conversions, the software must program filter coefficients. Furthermore, optionally, even for the common use cases, the software may choose to program the filter coefficients. Note that the coefficients are in Q23 number format (1 sign bit and 23 fractional bits). a. Set (SFC_COEF_RAM_0.COEF_RAM_EN = 1).

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Program the RAM via SFC_AHUBRAMCTL_SFC_CTRL_0 and
- SFC_AHUBRAMCTL_SFC_DATA_0. Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection
for how to program any RAM in an AHUB module. b. Enable the SFC module: Set SFC_ENABLE to 1. Ensure the module initialization is done before sending data to SFC: Ensure (SFC_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (SFC_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5. 6.
##### 7.7.3.15.1 Commonly Used Frequency Conversions

