# 1.1 /0.5/0. 6 V 1.1/0.5/0.6 V

- No
- No
N/A
##### 9.4.2.3.2 Pads and Bricks Support for Uncontrolled Shutdown and I/O
The Orin pads and bricks are specially designed to properly handle uncontrolled shutdown, where one or all of the core power rails (VDD_SOC, VDD_RTC) is powered down with the I/O power rails still active which can cause permanent pad damage from electrical stress if without proper circuit designs.
##### 9.4.2.3.3 Programmable Drive Strength Capabilities
This section summarizes the programmable drive strength capabilities of various pad groups. 1. BDSDMEM_* Pads Controlled by programmable drive strength registers.
- The DRVUP_VCLAMP [6:0]/DRVDN_VCLAMP [6:0] codes are hard-wired to the corresponding
power group VCLAMP and GND respectively. Pins in the following pad groups have a 2-bit back-up drive strength control using this pad variant.
- AO_HV
2. BDSDMEMLV_* Pads Controlled by programmable drive strength registers. Pins in the following pad groups use this pad variant:
- UFS, EQOS

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
3. BDPGLP_*, BDPGLPHVIN_* Pads (Common/GPIO/MPIO pad type) Controlled by programmable drive strength registers. Pins in the following pad groups use this pad variant: Many LSIO pad groups as listed in the Orin Pinmux document. Few pads in DEBUG. 4. BDSDMEMCOMP_* Pad
- This is a calibration pad for drive strength calibration to override the programming drive
strength register settings if selected. This pad variant works for both 1.8 and 3.3 V I/O signaling levels. Pins in the following pad group use this pad variant:
- SDMMC1_HV
5. BDSDMEMLVCOMP_* Pad
- This is a calibration pad for drive strength calibration to override the programming drive
strength register settings if selected. This pad variant works for both 1.2 and 1.8 V I/O signaling levels. Pins in the following pad groups use this pad variant.
- QSPI, DEBUG, EQOS
The typical design goal for the 5 pad types above is to have a drive impedance of 50 Ω. For interfaces using pads that do not have the corresponding calibration features, i.e. type 1. through 3. above, the drive strength must be programmed. The power-on default values by the drive strength registers are expected to meet the typical low- speed interface requirements and general-purpose sidebands electrical specs. Based on the silicon characteristics, software needs to make certain to handle such interface initialization properly. For pads type 4. and 5. above, their interface initialization triggers hardware drive strength calibration. Software must follow the individual unit's interface initialization guides to ensure that drive strength calibration is taken care of one-time during power-up, or periodically by programming the drive codes to compensate for PVT variations.
#### 9.4.2.4 External Wake Events
External wake events are I/O state change(s), which are defined as triggers to notify the Orin SoC power management logic to indicate some action is needed requiring the SoC to exit low power state. For example, HDMI interfaces define a pin called Hot plug detect (HPD), and wake event associated with it. Upon a hot plug-in connection of HDMI, the event is notified as pin-state value

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
change on HPD pin. We define number of such external wake events to cater multiple platform use cases. Upon I/O state change, “wake engine” logic in PMC registers the event and triggers power manager hardware. For more details on wake event programming model, wake processing capabilities refer to PMC section. Orin I/Os capable as “Wake pins” are indicated with wake event numbering in the Orin Pinmux document.
#### 9.4.2.5 GPIO Controller to Ports Mapping
The mapping of GPIO controllers to GPIO Ports and Pad Control Groups is discussed here.
- GPIOs in the SYS, AO, and AO_HV pin group are on the VDD_RTC (Ungated Always-ON core
power supply). GPIOs in G9, G10 and G11 groups are on the ungated VDD_FSI core power supply. GPIOs in the rest of the pin groups are on the ungated VDD_SOC core power supply.
- Table 9.49 GPIO Controllers for Different Pad Control Groups
- GPIO Controller
- GPIO Ports
- Pad Control Groups
- Padlet Group / Voltage Domain
- GPIO_CTL0
A (8)*
- G5
- VDDIO_G5
B (1)*
- DEBUG
- VDDIO_DEBUG
- AC (8)*
- AD (4)*
- G7
- VDDIO_G7
- GPIO_CTL1
X (8)* Y (8)* Z (8)*
- G2
- VDDIO_G2
- GPIO_CTL2
M (8)* N (8)*
- EDP
- VDDIO_EDP
P (8)* Q (8)* R (6)*
- G3
- VDDIO_G3
- GPIO_CTL3
K (8)* L (4)*
- PEX_CTL
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL
- AE (2)*
- UFS
- VDDIO_UFS
- AF (4)*
- PEX_CTL_2
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL_2
- AG (8)*
- PEX_CTL_3
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL_3
- GPIO_CTL4
G (8)* H (8)* I (7)*
- G4
- VDDIO_G4

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- GPIO Controller
- GPIO Ports
- Pad Control Groups
- Padlet Group / Voltage Domain
- GPIO_CTL5
C (8)* D (4)*
- QSPI
- VDDIO_QSPI
E (8)* F (6)*
- EQOS
- VDDIO_EQOS
J (6)*
- SDMMC1_HV
- VDDIO_SDMMC1_HV
- GPIO_AON
- AA (8)*
- BB (4)*
- AO_HV
- VDDIO_AO_HV
- CC (8)*
- DD (3)*
- AO
- VDDIO_AO
- EE (8)*
- GG (1)*
- SYS
- VDDIO_SYS
- GPIO_FSI_CTL0
S (8)* T (2)*
- G9
- VDDIO_G9
W (2)*
- G11
- VDDIO_G11
- GPIO_FSI_CTL1
U (8)* V (1)*
- G10
- VDDIO_G10
- Number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port.
#### 9.4.2.6 DFD OBS (Observation Bus) Signals
In DFD mode, the selected unit's related signals are routed through certain pins for debug purpose. For more information on the observation bus selection and usage in DFD mode, please refer to the DFD chapter of this TRM. There are a total of 32 pins as summarized in the following table for the Observation Bus (OBS) to aid the SoC debug.
- Table 9.50 DFD OBS Pins
- Pin Name
- Pins
- Pin Count
- Max Freq
- IO Rail
- Group
- Normal Usage /
- Comment
- UART5
- TX, RX, RTS, CTS

