# 1.6 ) is not supported.

- DMA_SUPPORT - SDMA Support
- This bit indicates whether the Host Controller is capable of using SDMA to
transfer data between system memory and the Host Controller directly. Version 4.10 Host Controller shall support SDMA if ADMA2 is supported.
- HIGH_SPEED_SUPPORT - High Speed Support
- This bit indicates whether the Host Controller and the Host System support High
Speed mode and they can supply SD Clock frequency from 25MHz to 50MHz.
- ADMA1_SUPPORT - ADMA1 Support
This bit indicates whether the Host Controller is capable of using ADMA1.
- ADMA2_SUPPORT - ADMA2 Support
This bit indicates whether the Host Controller is capable of using ADMA2. Version 4.10 Host Controller shall support ADMA2 if ADMA3 is supported.
- EXTENDED_MEDIA_BUS_SUPPORT
Setting to 1,indicates 8-bit data bus is supported.
- MAX_BLOCK_LENGTH - Max Block Length
- This value indicates the maximum block size that the Host Driver can read and
write to the buffer in the Host Controller. The buffer shall transfer this block size without wait cycles. Three sizes can be defined as indicated below. It is noted that transfer block length shall be always 512 bytes for SD Memory Cards regardless this field.
- BASE_CLOCK_FREQUENCY - Base Clock Frequency For SD Clock
- This value indicates the base (maximum) clock frequency for the SD Clock. Unit
values are 1MHz. If the real frequency is 16.5MHz, the lager value shall be set 01 0001b (17MHz) because the Host Driver use this value to calculate the clock divider value (Refer to the SDCLK Frequency Select in the Clock Control register.) and it shall not exceed upper limit of the SD Clock frequency. The supported clock range is 10MHz to 63MHz. If these bits are all 0, the Host System has to get information via another method.
- Not 0 - 1MHz to 63MHz
000000b- Get information via another method
- TIMEOUT_CLOCK_UNIT - Timeout Clock Unit
This bit shows the unit of base clock frequency used to detect Data Timeout Error. 0 KHz 1 MHz
- TIMEOUT_CLOCK_FREQUENCY - Timeout Clock Frequency

- SDMMCA Registers
This bit shows the base clock frequency used to detect Data Timeout Error. The Timeout Clock Unit defines the unit of this fields value.
- Timeout Clock Unit =0 [KHz] unit: 1KHz to 63KHz
- Timeout Clock Unit =1 [MHz] unit: 1MHz to 63MHz
- Not 0 - 1KHz to 63KHz or 1MHz to 63MHz
000000b - Get information via another method
- Offset: 0x40
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x3f6cd08c (0b0011,1111,011x,1100,1101,0000,1x00,1100)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

