# 10.17.2 Functional Description

#### 10.17.2.1 Fan Tachometer Clocks
The oscillator clock (38.4 MHz) serves as a clock source for the tachometer input controller. The 1- MHz clock is derived from the crystal, and is used as a tachometer counter clock. This 1-MHz clock divider is external to the tachometer module. The input to tachometer is the 1-MHz clock itself. The 1-MHz clock would actually be 38.4/38 or 19.2/19 which is 1.0105263 MHz. Software has to use this clock value in the RPM calculations. The PLLP, which is another clock source to the tachometer, cannot be used to derive the 1-MHz clock because of the 8-bit divider. The minimum input clock frequency is 3.18 MHz (408 MHz/2^7 MHz) when PLLP is used as a clock source. The clock value used in the RPM calculations should be adjusted accordingly.
- As the tachometer input frequency range is 1-400 Hz, and the tolerable precision for the
tachometer is < 0.1%, the minimum sampling clock should have frequency > 400 kHz. 1 MHz is chosen to get 1 μs time base for the counter for easy calculations. Operation is at a fixed frequency.
##### 10.17.2.1.1 Fan Tachometer Input Controller
The figure below explains the tachometer input controller in detail.
**Figure 10.163 High-Level View of Tachometer Input Controller**
A 1-MHz counter is implemented in the period and HI counter logic which provides one microsecond time base. This counter increments for the duration of the window length of the tachometer input. If the counter overflows, it is indicated by the overflow bit. When the window length ends, the last counter value is latched into the software-accessible register. The glitch filter in the GPIO unit is disabled here. The filter logic is programmable with a range of [1 ms to 128 ms] in steps of 1 ms. If this is programmed with X ms, it filters out glitches of width less than X+1 ms. The tachometer input frequency range would be 1-400 Hz. So the minimum time period is 1/400 =

