# 10.14.2 Functional Description

@{Key=10.14.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The SPI Controller works as a Master/Slave on the SPI bus. It has independent Tx and Rx FIFOs of 64 x 32 bits each. Software can program the controller to generate transactions of a required number of packets of specific packet size on the SPI bus, where a transaction is a sequence of packets in either direction. It can be operated in two modes:
- The PIO Mode requires software to read and write FIFOs for handling data transfers between
system memory and FIFO. 1.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
2. The DMA Mode uses a channel of the GP-DMA controller (outside of SPI) to transfer data between system memory and the FIFOs. Refer to the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter. At the end of each transaction, an Interrupt is generated, if enabled. Software uses Tx and Rx operations in combination with Chip Select (CS) control to generate commands on the SPI bus. The SPI Interface consists of four signals defined in the table below and illustrated in the figure after.
- Table 10.107 SPI Interface Signals
- Signal Name
- Type
- Description
- SCK
- Output
- Serial Clock
- CS
- Output
- Chip Select/Slave Select
- Typically active Low; programmable by
SPI_COMMAND_0.CS_POL_INACTIVE0.
- MOSI
- Output / Bi-
directional
- Master Data Out; Slave Data In
- MISO
- Input / Bi-directional
- Master Data In; Slave Data Out
**Figure 10.152 SPI Controller System Diagram**
Note: Directions of the signals in the above figure vary depending on how the SPI Controller is configured as a Master or Slave. The figure below shows the block diagram of the SPI controller. The color code indicates the clock domains of the blocks and the clock domain crossings (CDCs).

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.153 SPI Controller Block Diagram – Clock Domain Crossings**
#### 10.14.2.1 Transmission Format
- Using the MODE field in the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register, software sets one of the four modes in
which the SPI controller works. The two bits of the Mode field specify the idle (inactive) state of SCK before the chip select is asserted and the data transmitting/receiving edges of SCK. Mode [1] determines the SCK polarity. If the polarity is "0" (Low), then the SCK signal is "0" (Low) when idle and transitions to "1" (High) when data transfer starts. If the clock polarity is "1" (High), then the SCK signal is "1" (High) when idle and transitions to "0" when data transfer starts. Mode [0] is the SCK phase control bit. If the clock phase is "0," then the receiver latches the data on the first transition of SCK from the idle state. If the clock phase is "1," then the receiver latches the data on the second transition of SCK. Modes supported by the SPI controller are:
- Master
- All modes for Tx and Rx
- Slave
- Mode 1 and Mode 3 for Tx
- All modes for Rx

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
The following table defines the four modes for the SPI protocol.
- Table 10.108 SPI Modes with Clock Polarity and Phase
- SPI Mode
- Clock
- Polarity
- Clock
- Phase
- SCK
- Inactive
- Data Latch IN
- Data Latch OUT
- Low
on positive edges of clock on negative edges of clock
- Low
on negative edges of clock on positive edges of clock
- High
on negative edges of clock on positive edges of clock
- High
on positive edges of clock on negative edges of clock The figure below shows the SPI CS, MOSI, and MISO data lines and SCK for different modes.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.154 SPI Timing of Mode 0, 1, 2, 3**
#### 10.14.2.2 Modes of Operation
##### 10.14.2.2.1 Master and Slave Modes
The SPI controller can be configured to operate as a Master or Slave. A "1" in the M_S bit of the
- SPI_COMMAND_0 Register puts the SPI controller in Master Mode whereas a "0" puts the
controller in Slave Mode. Only in Master Mode, the SPI controller can initiate a transaction.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
In Master Mode, data from the Tx FIFO is transmitted on the MOSI pin, whereas data from the Slave is received on the MISO pin and sent to the Rx FIFO. The Master can simultaneously transmit and receive on MOSI and MISO in Full-Duplex Mode. In Slave mode, once software enables the SPI controller by setting the PIO bit, it waits for the Master to initiate a transaction. Before the transaction begins, the Slave logic continuously polls the CS input. When the Master asserts CS and SCK is transmitted to the Slave, the Slave data is transmitted from the Tx FIFO on MISO and data from MOSI is received in the Rx FIFO. The Slave can also simultaneously transmit and receive on MOSI and MISO in Full-Duplex Mode.
- Table 10.109 Master Mode Port Configuration
- Name
- Direction
- Description
- MOSI
- Bi-directional
Output in Full-Duplex/Tx Mode. Input in Both_Enable Rx Mode.
- MISO
- Bi-directional
Input in Full-Duplex/Rx Mode. Output in Both_Enable Tx Mode.
- SCK
- Output
Synchronization clock to all Slaves.
- CS
- Output
Slave select signal to x, where x is any of {0, 1, 2, 3}.
- Table 10.110 Slave Mode Port Configuration
- Name
- Direction
- Description
- MISO
- Bi-directional
Output in Full-Duplex/Tx Mode. Input in Both_Enable Rx Mode.
- MOSI
- Bi-directional
Input in Full-Duplex/Rx Mode. Output in Both_Enable Tx Mode.
- SCK
- Input
Synchronization clock received from the Master.
- CS
- Input
Select signal. When the SPI controller is configured to interface with multiple Slaves, the controller has one CS signal for each Slave, up to a maximum of four Slaves. During a transfer, the Master asserts CS specified in the CS_SEL field in SPI_COMMAND_0 Register. At any given time, there can be only one Slave transmitting data. The figure below shows an example of an SPI controller in Slave Mode interfacing in a two-Slave environment with another SPI controller in Master Mode. In the multi- slave environment, all Slaves not selected by the Master through proper CS assertion, tristate their MISO lines.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.155 Multi-Slave Environment**
##### 10.14.2.2.2 Packed and Unpacked Modes
SPI transactions can be carried out in packets. In particular, multiple packets (i.e., Packed) or a single packet (i.e., Unpacked) can be put in a Tx/Rx FIFO word in transferring. In the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register, the PACKED field specifies whether the packets are packed or unpacked, and the BIT_LENGTH field specifies the packet size, i.e., how many bits in a packet. The Packed and Unpacked Mode are available for both PIO and DMA Mode. Packed Mode (SPI_COMMAND_0.PACKED == 1):
- If (BIT_LENGTH == 03h), the packet size is 4 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to
eight such packets.
- If (BIT_LENGTH == 07h), the packet size is 8 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to
four such packets. If (BIT_LENGTH == 0fh), the packet size is 16 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to two such packets. If (BIT_LENGTH == 1fh), the packet size is 32 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word holds exactly one such packet.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
In the Packed Mode, if the packet size is 4 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 8, or if the packet size is 8 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 4, or if the packet size is 16 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 2, then the last word in the Tx FIFO contains only the residual number (after dividing by 8, 4, or 2) of packets together with some number (28/24/20/16/12/8/4 if packet size is 4, 24/16/8 if Packet size is 8, or 16 if packet size is 16) of irrelevant random bits originally in the last Tx FIFO word. These irrelevant random bits will be ignored and not transmitted by the controller. In other words, the controller stops transmitting after finishing the last packet (of the not fully packed Tx FIFO word). On the receiver side, receiving also stops after the last packet, thus leaving the remaining number (28/24/20/16/12/8/4 if Packet size is 4, 24/16/8 if packet size is 8, or 16 if packet size is 16) of bits in the last Rx FIFO word untouched or irrelevant for the received packet. Packets are placed in the Tx/Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified. Unpacked Mode (SPI_COMMAND_0.PACKED == 0):
- Packet size is (SPI_COMMAND_0.BIT_LENGTH + 1)
In the Unpacked Mode, there is no packing of packets in the Tx/Rx FIFO word. It uses exactly one Tx/Rx FIFO word for one packet transmitting/receiving regardless of Packet sizes, thus leaving some bits unused. Unpacked Mode is always used for transmitting/receiving of all transfer sizes smaller than 32 bits. Packets are placed in the Tx/Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified.
- Byte and Bit Endianness
A packet can be transmitted or received in Little Endian or Big Endian format at both the Byte and Bit level as defined by the En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit field in the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register. If (En_LE_Byte == 1), the bytes in a Packet are arranged in Big Endian; otherwise, Little Endian. If (En_LE_Bit == 1), the bits in a byte are arranged in Little Endian; otherwise, Big Endian. The table below explains how a 48-bit data ([47:0]) in three 16-bit Packets ({P2[15:0], P1[15:0], P0[15:0]}) is arranged according to the settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit.
- Table 10.111 Byte/Bit-Endian Arrangement
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Byte/Bit-Endian Arrangement
- P2([8:15],[0:7]), P1([8:15],[0:7]), P0([8:15],[0:7])
- P2([15:8],[7:0]), P1([15:8],[7:0]), P0([15:8],[7:0])
- P2([0:7],[8:15]), P1([0:7],[8:15]), P0([0:7],[8:15])
- P2([7:0],[15:8]), P1([7:0],[15:8]), P0([7:0],[15:8])

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- The following examples explain the effects of En_LE_Byte and En-LE_Bit with Unpacked and
Packed Mode.
- Unpacked Mode
Consider a 24-bit data ([23:0]) as three 8-bit Packets ({B2[7:0], B1[7:0], B0[7:0]} for Tx/Rx. Tx: The 24-bit data ([23:0]) is stored in a Tx FIFO word (Column C) according to the settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit, then transmitted on the MOSI line Least Significant Bit first (Column D).
- Table 10.112 Transmission of Unpacked Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Byte/Bit-Endian-Arranged Data in Tx FIFO
- Word for Tx
- Data Bit Sequence Tx'd on MOSI Line
(Right-most Bit First) {8'bx,[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {8'bx,[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {8'bx,[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {8'bx,[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} {[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} Rx: Bits are received in the same sequence they were transmitted (Column C), then placed in a Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified (Column D)
- Table 10.113 Receiving of Unpacked Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Data Bit Sequence Rx'd from MISO Line
(Right-most Bit First)
- Data Arranged in Rx FIFO Word after Being
- Rx'd
{[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {8'bx,[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {8'bx,[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {8'bx,[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} {8'bx,[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]}
- Packed Mode
Consider a 48-bit data ([47:0]) as 3 16-bit Packets ({P2[15:0], P1[15:0], P0[15:0]}) for Tx/Rx.
- Tx: The 48-bit data ([47:0] is stored in two Tx FIFO words (Column C) according to the
settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit, then transmitted on the MOSI line Least Significant Bit first (Column D).

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- Table 10.114 Transmission of Packed Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Byte/Bit-Endian-Arranged Data in Tx
- FIFO Words for Tx
- Data Bit Sequence Tx'd on MOSI Line (Right-
most Bit First) {16'bx,[40:47],[32:39]}, {[24:31],[16:23],[8:15], [0:7]} {[40:47],[32:39],[24:31],[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {16'bx,[47:40],[39:32]}, {[31:24],[23:16],[15:8], [7:0]} {[47:40],[39:32],[31:24],[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {16'bx,[32:39],[40:47]}, {[16:23],[24:31],[0:7], [8:15]} {[32:39],[40:47],[16:23],[24:31],[0:7],[8:15]} {16'bx,[39:32],[47:40]}, {[23:16],[31:24],[7:0], [15:8]} {[39:32],[47:40],[23:16],[31:24],[7:0],[15:8]} Rx: Bits are received in the same sequence they were transmitted (Column C), then placed in two Rx FIFO words Least-Significant-Bit-justified (Column D)
- Table 10.115 Receiving of Packed Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Data Bit Sequence Rx'd from MISO Line
(Right-most Bit First)
- Data Arranged in Rx FIFO Words after
- Being Rx'd
{[40:47],[32:39],[24:31],[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {16'bx,[40:47],[32:39]}, {[24:31],[16:23],[8:15], [0:7]} {[47:40],[39:32],[31;24],[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {16'bx,[47:40],[39:32]}, {[31:24],[23:16],[15:8], [7:0]} {[32:39],[40:47],[16:23],[24:31],[0:7],[8:15]} {16'bx,[32:39],[40:47]}, {[16:23],[24:31],[0:7], [8:15]} {[39:32],[47:40],[23:16],[31:24],[7:0],[15:8]} {16'bx,[39:32],[47:40]}, {[23:16],[31:24],[7:0], [15:8]}
##### 10.14.2.2.3 PIO and DMA Modes
PIO and DMA are the two main operational Modes of the SPI controller. When the number of FIFO words needed to hold the total number of packets for transmitting/receiving is less than or equal to 64 (depth of the Tx/Rx FIFO) the PIO Mode is used. Otherwise, the DMA Mode is used. In other words, the transfer size is limited to 64 (the Tx/Rx FIFO depth) 32-bit words worth of Packed/
- Unpacked Packets for the PIO Mode, and 2 16 (64 Ki, as indicated by
- SPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0.DMA_BLOCK_SIZE) 32-bit words, or 256 KiB worth of Packed/Unpacked
Packets for the DMA Mode. For data blocks with sizes larger than the limits (for PIO or DMA Mode), multiple (PIO or DMA) transfers will be used to complete transferring such data blocks as in
- Continuous Mode. In either PIO or DMA Mode, the SPI controller sends an Interrupt to the
processor at the end of each transfer.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
For details of the DMA operations, refer to the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter.
- Continuous Mode
Continuous Mode means:
- In Master Mode, the SPI Controller can transfer data continuously with an external device,
unless Interrupted by software.
- In Slave Mode, the SPI Controller can transfer data continuously with an external device,
unless Interrupted by software or an external Master deasserts chip select (CS). In the CS deassert case, the SPI controller can generate an Interrupt based on Interrupt mask bit.
- This mode can be enabled only in DMA mode, not in PIO mode. The SPI controller disregards
the DMA_BLOCK_SIZE Register in this mode.
- SPI Controller Configured as Master
When the SPI Controller is configured as a Master, it can transfer any amount of data unless software disables the SPI Controller by clearing (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit in the
- SPI_DMA_CTL_0 Register. The SPI Controller generates CS and SCK accordingly throughout the
data transfer. Along with the SPI Controller, the GPC DMA also needs to be configured in Continuous Mode. Refer to the General Purpose DMA chapter of this TRM for more information. Errors and Interrupt generation: In Master Continuous Mode, the SPI controller will not generate Tx FIFO Underflow or Rx FIFO
- Overflow errors. These errors generally occur in Slave mode when the GPC DMA does not
write data into the Tx FIFO or does not read data from the Rx FIFO fast enough due to system bandwidth/arbitration issues. In such cases, the SPI Controller keeps waiting for the GPC
- DMA to write data into the Tx FIFO or read data from the Rx FIFO. During such waiting
periods (Idle periods), the SPI Controller stops generating SCK but keeps CS asserted. Once data is available in the Tx FIFO or enough space is available in Rx FIFO, the SPI Controller resumes the data transfer and generates SCK, continuing the CS in the asserted state. Disabling the SPI Controller in Master Continuous Mode: In Master Continuous Mode, the SPI Controller can be disabled only by clearing (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit by software. The SPI Controller will not be disabled in any other way by hardware.
- Generally, software is recommended to clear (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit when the
Controller is in the Idle state. If software clears the DMA_EN bit during the Active state (when a transaction is in process, i.e., CS is asserted and SCK is present), the SPI Controller writes the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in the shift Register) up to the point before disabling the DMA_EN bit into the Rx FIFO and increments the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- SPI Controller Configured as Slave
When the SPI Controller is configured as a Slave, it can transfer any amount of data unless:
- Software disables the SPI Controller by clearing the DMA_EN bit (write "1" to clear) (or)
External SPI Master Device deasserts Chip Select. External SPI Master stops sending SCK for SLV_IDLE_COUNT number of clocks.
##### 10.14.2.2.4 Errors and Interrupt Generation
In Slave Continuous Mode, the SPI controller will generate Tx FIFO Underflow or Rx FIFO Overflow errors. These errors generally occur when GPC DMA does not write data into the Tx FIFO or does not read data from Rx FIFO fast enough due to system bandwidth/arbitration issues. In such cases, the SPI Controller generates an error condition, sets the TX_FIFO_UNF or RX_FIFO_OVF bits, and generates an Interrupt. If an Overflow happens, data in the Rx FIFO will not be corrupted.
##### 10.14.2.2.5 Disabling the SPI Controller in Slave Continuous Mode
In Slave Continuous Mode, the SPI Controller can be disabled by software clearing the DMA_EN bit. Generally, software is recommended to clear the DMA_EN bit when the SPI Controller is in the Idle state (the Idle state is defined as when there is no input SCK to the SPI Slave from the External Master device and/or CS is inactive). If software clears the DMA_EN bit during the Active state (the Active state is defined as when there is an input SCK to the SPI Slave from the External Master device and CS is active), the SPI Controller will write the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in shift Register) into the Rx FIFO and increments BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register.
##### 10.14.2.2.6 Disabling the SPI Controller by an External Master Device
When the SPI Controller is configured in Slave Continuous Mode, the External Master can start a data transfer by generating CS and SCK to the Slave SPI. Once the External Master finishes the data transfer (Tx, Rx, or both), it will stop generating SCK and then deassert CS. The SPI Slave treats this as an end of transaction and generates an Interrupt along with clearing the DMA_EN bit. The SPI Controller will write the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in the shift Register before CS is deasserted) into the Rx FIFO and increments the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register. This will be true even if CS is deasserted in an unaligned word boundary (i.e. CS deassertion can happen only at a packet boundary).
- In Slave Error cases (RX_FIFO_OVF), the BLK_CNT counter in the
SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register is incremented first and then the Rx FIFO is written. So when
- RX_FIFO_OVF happens, the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register also shows
1 word extra compared to what is actually present in the Rx FIFO.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
In Non-continuous Mode, the SPI Controller does not generate a CS_DEASSERT Interrupt at the very end when the actual programmed blk_size is done. That time CS is deasserted by the Master normally. Software will get a completion Interrupt in this case.
- CS_INACTIVE Bit in SPI FIFO Control/Status Register (SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0)
In the CS deassert case, the SPI controller can generate Interrupts, provided the Interrupt Mask bit is set Low (Interrupt enabled) by software and (SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0.CS_INACTIVE == 1) indicating CS is deasserted by an External Master. Software needs to clear this bit while addressing the Interrupt. On the other hand, if the Interrupt Mask bit is set High (Interrupt not enabled), SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0.CS_INACTIVE may still be set High by the SPI Controller but will not generate an Interrupt. If the CS deassert Interrupt mask is set Low (i.e., the Interrupt is enabled), the SPI Slave Controller generates an Interrupt when all the data in the Rx shift Register is written into the Rx FIFO. Whenever external master deasserts CS, SPI slave will always set the CS_INACTIVE status bit and generate interrupt based on interrupt mask. Pause is a feature which when set will not terminate the transfer in case of CS deassertion by external master.
- In both the above cases, CS deassertion Interrupt generation is independent of the Clock
provided by the External Master.
- FRAME_END in SPI FIFO Control/Status Register
- In Slave Continuous Mode, if SCK is not received for the number of clocks specified in the
SLV_IDLE_COUNT field and CS is asserted, then the continuous mode is terminated and this status bit is set. Continuous Mode is terminated if the condition is met. In this case, an Interrupt is generated. Software has two use cases: 1. In Slave Continuous mode, software mainly will use the pause feature (set PAUSE bit to "1"), because the use case is such that there will be continuous audio streaming and it is not desired for the Slave to be stopped based on CS deassert. In Slave non-continuous mode, where the use case is based on variable length data coming in from the external Master, software will use the non-pause feature (enable the CS deassert
- Interrupt) so that software can read the received chunk of data based on the CS deassert
Interrupt with frame_end remaining deasserted. 2.
- In the Non-Pause case, continuous mode termination can happen with CS deasserted or DMA
disabled (DMA_EN = 0).In the Pause case, continuous mode termination can happen only with DMA disable. Until the DMA is disabled, it is the same continuous mode transaction and continues forever until the DMA is disabled.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
#### 10.14.2.3 Error Conditions
When the SPI controller is configured as a Master, the following error scenarios can happen:
- Tx FIFO Overflow
Tx FIFO overflow occurs when the DMA writes into the Tx FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the TX_FIFO_OVF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The
- SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the TX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK bit in the
- SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must
remove the cause of Tx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_OVF bit by writing "1" to it.
- To start a new transaction, software must flush the Tx FIFO by writing "1" to the
TX_FIFO_FLUSH bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register.
- Rx FIFO Overflow
Rx FIFO overflow occurs when the DMA writes into the Rx FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the RX_FIFO_OVF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The
- SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the RX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK bit in
the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the RX_FIFO_OVF bit by writing "1" to it.
- To start a new transaction, software must flush the Rx FIFO by writing "1" to the
RX_FIFO_FLUSH bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register.
- Tx FIFO Underflow
- Tx FIFO Underflow occurs when the DMA reads from the Tx FIFO when it is empty. In this
case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the TX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the TX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_UNF bit by writing "1" to it before a new transaction can start.
- Rx FIFO Underflow
- Rx FIFO Underflow occurs when the DMA reads from the Rx FIFO when it is empty. In this
case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the RX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the RX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_UNF bit by writing "1" to it before a new transaction can start. Note: In Master Mode, all the errors above can happen only when the CPU/GPC_DMA reads/writes an empty/full FIFO. The SPI controller will never write/read a full/empty FIFO. Instead the controller

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
will pause (stops sending clocks to the Slave with chip select being in an active state) whenever the FIFOs are full/empty. When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, the following error scenarios can happen:
- Tx FIFO Overflow
- Tx FIFO Overflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller writes into the Tx
FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/
- DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with TX_FIFO_OVF bit in the status
Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and TX_FIFO_OVF bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and then flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- Rx FIFO Overflow
- Rx FIFO Overflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller writes into Rx
FIFO when it is full in BOTH_EN Mode. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with RX_FIFO_OVF bit in the status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled.
- Software has to clear the error bit and RX_FIFO_OVF bit along with the Interrupt bit. To
start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/ Status Register.
- Tx FIFO Underflow
- Tx FIFO Underflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller reads from Tx
FIFO when it is empty. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the
- PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with the TX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI
- FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are
enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and TX_FIFO_UNF bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- Rx FIFO Underflow
- Rx FIFO Underflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller reads from the
- Rx FIFO in BOTH_EN Mode. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting
the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with the RX_FIFO_UNF bit in the
- SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts
are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and RX_FIFO_UNF bit along with the
- Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending
clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- CS_inactive

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave and CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_n in
the SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 Register is set, if an external Master deasserts the chip select in the middle of a transaction, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/ DMA_EN bit to "0," and sets the CS_INACTIVE bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear
the CS_INACTIVE bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. It is software's responsibility to read the data that is left out of the Rx FIFO for CS inactive.
- For example, if the Interrupt trigger is set for four words and external Master has taken
the CS off in between the transfer, and at that point of time the Rx FIFO has only two words, it is software's responsibility to read out those two words or flush the FIFO.
- Frame_End
- When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave and DMA-continuous and
- CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_n in the SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 Register is set, if an
external Master stops sending clocks for more than Slave_idle_clock_count programmed in the Register, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the DMA bit to "0," and sets the FRAME_END bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the FRAME_END bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/
- RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. If the Master resumes the clk
within "Slave_idle_clock_count", the SPI controller will also pause and resume the transaction whenever ext_clk is available.
#### 10.14.2.4 Programming Guidelines
There are two basic modes of operation: DMA and PIO modes. It is required that software sets up all parameters in the following registers before enabling the SPI_COMMAND_0.PIO bit for any of these modes.
- SPI_COMMAND_0
- SPI_COMMAND2_0
- SPI_TIMING_REG1_0
- SPI_TIMING_REG2_0
- SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0
- SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0
- SPI_DMA_CTL_0
- SPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
##### 10.14.2.4.1 PIO Mode
This mode is enabled by writing "1" to the PIO bit in the SPI Command1 Register. In this mode, the SPI controller transmits/receives as many packets as configured by software in the SPI Block Size Register.
- PIO Mode has the same features as DMA Mode. The difference between PIO Mode and DMA Mode
is that in PIO Mode, the maximum number of packets that can be transmitted or received is less than or equal to 64.
##### 10.14.2.4.2 DMA Mode
This mode is enabled by writing "1" to the DMA bit in the SPI DMA Control Register. In this mode, the SPI controller transmits or receives the number of packets as indicated by the BLOCK_SIZE field in the SPI Block Size Register. If the PACKED bit is set and BIT_LEN is set to 7, then all FIFO words contain four packets to transfer (transmit or receive). Packets are transferred as per the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte bit configurations (see the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte Modes section), with packet 0 in byte 0 of the FIFO and packet 3 in byte 3 of the FIFO. In Unpacked Mode, if BIT_LEN is set to N, each packet will consist of (N + 1) bits. These bits will be transmitted/received in the Tx FIFO/Rx FIFO as per the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte bit configurations (see the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte Modes section). Any remaining bits in the FIFO will be ignored by the hardware. The maximum packet length is 32, which can be selected by setting BIT_LEN to "31". In this case, all data bits in the FIFO contain valid packet data. A DMA request will be generated to GPC_DMA in this mode depending on the setting of Tx_TRIG and Rx_TRIG. If transmits are enabled, setting Tx_TRIG to "00" generates a Tx DMA request whenever the Tx FIFO has one word of space available (if not full). Setting Tx_TRIG to "01" generates a Tx DMA request whenever the Tx FIFO has four words of space available. If receives are enabled, setting Rx_TRIG to "00" will generate an Rx DMA request whenever the Rx FIFO has one word of data available (is not empty). Setting Rx_TRIG to "01" generates an Rx DMA request whenever the Rx FIFO has four words of data available.
##### 10.14.2.4.3 Interrupt Generation
The SPI controller generates an Interrupt to the processor at the end of a transfer in PIO Mode or when an error is detected in PIO or DMA Mode. An Interrupt is generated whenever RDY or one of the FIFO status bits in the SPI FIFO Control/ Status Register is set by the hardware. During transmits, when the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, if software/GPC DMA cannot fill the transmit FIFO fast enough, hardware will set the TX_FIFO_UNF bit and an Underflow condition

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
is generated. If software tries to write to a full Tx FIFO, hardware sets the TX_FIFO_OVF bit as an indication that software attempted to Overflow the Tx FIFO. Hardware makes sure that the Overflowing data is never written to the Tx FIFO. During receives, when the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, if software/GPC DMA cannot read the receive FIFO fast enough, hardware will set the RX_FIFO_OVF bit and an Overflow condition is generated. However, if software tries to read from an empty Rx FIFO, hardware sets the RXF_UNF bit as an indication that software attempted to Underflow the Rx FIFO. The Interrupt can be cleared by writing a "1" to the source of the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of RDY, then writing a "1" to the RDY bit clears the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of TX_FIFO_OVF, then writing a "1" to the TXF_OVF bit clears the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of RX_FIFO_UNF, then writing a "1" to RXF_UNF bit clears the Interrupt. Guideline for DMA use cases: In DMA Mode, if Interrupts are enabled, the SPI software driver has to deal with three Interrupts: one from the SPI controller and two from the Tx and Rx GPC DMA channels. This might make it complicated for the driver and also stresses the system. In such cases, software can use the Rx DMA Interrupt as the final one at which point all hardware activities can be assumed to be complete. But, in variable transfer lengths (continuous mode), software has to rely on the controller's Interrupts.
##### 10.14.2.4.4 Clock Initialization and Control
The SPI controller runs at 50 MHz at its interface to external SPI devices. The internal SPI controller clock (spi_clk) should run at the same frequency as the outgoing Interface Clock (SCK_Out) in Master Mode. In Slave Mode, however, the internal SPI interface clock frequency has to be 50% greater than the external clock (SCK_in). Note: The ratio between the Slave core clock and the Slave interface clock must be maintained at 1.5x. For example if the Slave interface clock is running at 10 MHz, the Slave core clock must not be less than 10x 1.5 MHz.
- Controller Enable
The SPI controller can be enabled in two ways:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_0.CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 1), where i = 1, 2,
3.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_SET_0.SET_CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 1),
where i = 1, 2, 3. Correspondingly, to disable the SPI controller:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_0.CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 0), where i = 1, 2,
3.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_CLR_0.CLR_CLK_ENB_SPI<i> =
1), where i = 1, 2, 3. In addition, the SPI controller can select its clock source with proper setup:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SPI<i>_0.SPI<i>_CLK_SRC = n), where i = 1, 2,
3, and n = 0, 6, 7. The selected clock is further divided by a factor m set by the following:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SPI<i>_0.SPI<i>_CLK_DIVISOR =
(2m-2)), where i = 1, 2, 3. See the Clock Controller and Reset chapter for more information on controller enable and clock configuration.
- Controller Reset
The SPI controller can be reset in two different ways: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_0.SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_SET_0.SET_SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i =
1, 2, 3. Correspondingly, to bring the SPI controller out of Reset mode: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_0.SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 0), where i = 1, 2, 3.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_CLR_0.CLR_SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i =
1, 2, 3. See the Reset chapter for more information on SPI controller reset.
##### 10.14.2.4.5 Slave Mode GPIO Synchronization
Because SPI does not support flow control, the GPIO is required to have the proper communication to avoid any clock loss from the Master. GPIO can be used in the following way for proper synchronization: SPI Slave client software writes to the Config Registers of the SPI controller and make the SPI Slave ready.
- After that, the Slave client software toggles GPIO to inform the Master that the Slave is
ready. Then the SPI Master sends SCK to the Slave device. If there is no GPIO to tell the Master that the Slave is ready, there is a chance to lose clock/data.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- Guidelines
This section provides guidelines for programming the SPI controller: Program all the required Register fields (no particular order is required except for the PIO/ DMA bit, which has to be programmed last):
- Clock Mode
- Packed/Unpacked Mode
- Tx_EN/Rx_EN
- BOTH_EN_BIT
- En_LE_Bit/En_LE_Byte
- BIT_LEN and BLOCK_SIZE values
- CS_SW_HW (software based or hardware based)
- - If CS_SW_HW is set, the value on CS_SW_VAL will be driven out. When CS hardware is used program the setup and hold values in the CS Timing Register.
- Program the DMA Trig values appropriately, if DMA Mode is used
- Enable Interrupts if PIO Mode is used
Program PIO or DMA to indicate the start of transfer. Once the software enables PIO/DMA, no required bits can be changed until the end of transfer except for PIO/DMA bit. Clearing the PIO/DMA bit ends the transaction. In case the SPI controller is configured to Receive Mode and software clears the PIO/DMA bit, then the partial data which the controller received until then will be written into the FIFO. This is true both for Master and Slave. In Slave Mode after PIO or DMA is set, hardware first waits for the CS to go Low by one of the four Masters. Then on reception of SCK, transfer begins. If CS or SCK is removed by the Master in the middle of a transfer, software must terminate the transaction by clearing the PIO/DMA bit. In case of Rx, hardware then writes the last received packet (incomplete packet) to the Rx FIFO. If software does not clear the PIO/DMA bit, the SPI controller will keep waiting for the SCK from the Master. If SCK resumes later, the transaction continues from where it paused earlier. If any error conditions occur, hardware will set the corresponding status bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register and stop the transfer. If IE is enabled, an Interrupt is generated. Software has to clear the source of the Interrupt by writing a "1" to it, after the completion of ISR.
- Special Guidelines for Slave Mode
Software should not program the controller Register when the interface clock is toggling. Software can disable the external clock input before programming the Registers and then re-enable it once all the Registers bits are programmed. One bit was added to the SPI controller (EXT_CLK_EN in Register SPI_MISC_0) to enable external Master clock. Software is required to enable this bit after all other Slave programming is done (after PIO/DMA bit is set). This bit works like a GATE for the external master clock.

- SPI Registers
- Software should not configure Slave Registers or apply reset when external Master clock is
toggling. If needed, software should GATE the clock by writing "0" to this bit and enable back when configuration or reset is done. For a completely successful transfer, the Master starts the actual transfer (enable both CLK and CS) after at least five cycles after EXT_CLK_EN is enabled in the Slave.
- In all other scenarios where the Master started communication to Slave and EXT_CLK_EN is
not enabled in advance, you may see data corruption.
- Guidelines for Transferring Data with GPC-DMA
- When the external device stops sending data after a (unknown) logical boundary, software
programs GPCDMA for the maximum possible data transfer size based on the use case. SPI is programmed for 64B/16W Rx mode as trigger level. GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MMIO burst size.
- GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MC burst size (default value is in the
specification, so there is no need to program explicitly).
- SPI generates an Interrupt to the CPU when all the packets are written to Rx FIFO (for Rx
transfers) or all packets are read from Tx FIFO to send out (for Tx transfers).
- Based on this Interrupt, the software waits until the ongoing DMA transfer is complete by
checking (RXFIFO_COUNT < BURST) or (DMAREQ_RX == Low) before disabling the DMA. If SPI has residual data in the buffer, the software reads it via PIO mode.
##### 10.14.2.4.6 Programming Trimmers
The three programmable trimmers in the SPI controller are used only in Master Mode:
- SPI-Tx trimmer
- This trimmer is used in Master Tx mode to adjust/center the outgoing data with respect to
the outgoing clock.
- SPI-Rx trimmer
- This trimmer is used in Master Rx mode to delay the loopback clock to the Rx shift
- Registers. This trimmer is used to adjust the Master SCK with respect to the SPI Slave
device's Tx data.}(@{Key=10.14.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The SPI Controller works as a Master/Slave on the SPI bus. It has independent Tx and Rx FIFOs of 64 x 32 bits each. Software can program the controller to generate transactions of a required number of packets of specific packet size on the SPI bus, where a transaction is a sequence of packets in either direction. It can be operated in two modes:
- The PIO Mode requires software to read and write FIFOs for handling data transfers between
system memory and FIFO. 1.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
2. The DMA Mode uses a channel of the GP-DMA controller (outside of SPI) to transfer data between system memory and the FIFOs. Refer to the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter. At the end of each transaction, an Interrupt is generated, if enabled. Software uses Tx and Rx operations in combination with Chip Select (CS) control to generate commands on the SPI bus. The SPI Interface consists of four signals defined in the table below and illustrated in the figure after.
- Table 10.107 SPI Interface Signals
- Signal Name
- Type
- Description
- SCK
- Output
- Serial Clock
- CS
- Output
- Chip Select/Slave Select
- Typically active Low; programmable by
SPI_COMMAND_0.CS_POL_INACTIVE0.
- MOSI
- Output / Bi-
directional
- Master Data Out; Slave Data In
- MISO
- Input / Bi-directional
- Master Data In; Slave Data Out
**Figure 10.152 SPI Controller System Diagram**
Note: Directions of the signals in the above figure vary depending on how the SPI Controller is configured as a Master or Slave. The figure below shows the block diagram of the SPI controller. The color code indicates the clock domains of the blocks and the clock domain crossings (CDCs).

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.153 SPI Controller Block Diagram – Clock Domain Crossings**
#### 10.14.2.1 Transmission Format
- Using the MODE field in the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register, software sets one of the four modes in
which the SPI controller works. The two bits of the Mode field specify the idle (inactive) state of SCK before the chip select is asserted and the data transmitting/receiving edges of SCK. Mode [1] determines the SCK polarity. If the polarity is "0" (Low), then the SCK signal is "0" (Low) when idle and transitions to "1" (High) when data transfer starts. If the clock polarity is "1" (High), then the SCK signal is "1" (High) when idle and transitions to "0" when data transfer starts. Mode [0] is the SCK phase control bit. If the clock phase is "0," then the receiver latches the data on the first transition of SCK from the idle state. If the clock phase is "1," then the receiver latches the data on the second transition of SCK. Modes supported by the SPI controller are:
- Master
- All modes for Tx and Rx
- Slave
- Mode 1 and Mode 3 for Tx
- All modes for Rx

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
The following table defines the four modes for the SPI protocol.
- Table 10.108 SPI Modes with Clock Polarity and Phase
- SPI Mode
- Clock
- Polarity
- Clock
- Phase
- SCK
- Inactive
- Data Latch IN
- Data Latch OUT
- Low
on positive edges of clock on negative edges of clock
- Low
on negative edges of clock on positive edges of clock
- High
on negative edges of clock on positive edges of clock
- High
on positive edges of clock on negative edges of clock The figure below shows the SPI CS, MOSI, and MISO data lines and SCK for different modes.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.154 SPI Timing of Mode 0, 1, 2, 3**
#### 10.14.2.2 Modes of Operation
##### 10.14.2.2.1 Master and Slave Modes
The SPI controller can be configured to operate as a Master or Slave. A "1" in the M_S bit of the
- SPI_COMMAND_0 Register puts the SPI controller in Master Mode whereas a "0" puts the
controller in Slave Mode. Only in Master Mode, the SPI controller can initiate a transaction.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
In Master Mode, data from the Tx FIFO is transmitted on the MOSI pin, whereas data from the Slave is received on the MISO pin and sent to the Rx FIFO. The Master can simultaneously transmit and receive on MOSI and MISO in Full-Duplex Mode. In Slave mode, once software enables the SPI controller by setting the PIO bit, it waits for the Master to initiate a transaction. Before the transaction begins, the Slave logic continuously polls the CS input. When the Master asserts CS and SCK is transmitted to the Slave, the Slave data is transmitted from the Tx FIFO on MISO and data from MOSI is received in the Rx FIFO. The Slave can also simultaneously transmit and receive on MOSI and MISO in Full-Duplex Mode.
- Table 10.109 Master Mode Port Configuration
- Name
- Direction
- Description
- MOSI
- Bi-directional
Output in Full-Duplex/Tx Mode. Input in Both_Enable Rx Mode.
- MISO
- Bi-directional
Input in Full-Duplex/Rx Mode. Output in Both_Enable Tx Mode.
- SCK
- Output
Synchronization clock to all Slaves.
- CS
- Output
Slave select signal to x, where x is any of {0, 1, 2, 3}.
- Table 10.110 Slave Mode Port Configuration
- Name
- Direction
- Description
- MISO
- Bi-directional
Output in Full-Duplex/Tx Mode. Input in Both_Enable Rx Mode.
- MOSI
- Bi-directional
Input in Full-Duplex/Rx Mode. Output in Both_Enable Tx Mode.
- SCK
- Input
Synchronization clock received from the Master.
- CS
- Input
Select signal. When the SPI controller is configured to interface with multiple Slaves, the controller has one CS signal for each Slave, up to a maximum of four Slaves. During a transfer, the Master asserts CS specified in the CS_SEL field in SPI_COMMAND_0 Register. At any given time, there can be only one Slave transmitting data. The figure below shows an example of an SPI controller in Slave Mode interfacing in a two-Slave environment with another SPI controller in Master Mode. In the multi- slave environment, all Slaves not selected by the Master through proper CS assertion, tristate their MISO lines.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.155 Multi-Slave Environment**
##### 10.14.2.2.2 Packed and Unpacked Modes
SPI transactions can be carried out in packets. In particular, multiple packets (i.e., Packed) or a single packet (i.e., Unpacked) can be put in a Tx/Rx FIFO word in transferring. In the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register, the PACKED field specifies whether the packets are packed or unpacked, and the BIT_LENGTH field specifies the packet size, i.e., how many bits in a packet. The Packed and Unpacked Mode are available for both PIO and DMA Mode. Packed Mode (SPI_COMMAND_0.PACKED == 1):
- If (BIT_LENGTH == 03h), the packet size is 4 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to
eight such packets.
- If (BIT_LENGTH == 07h), the packet size is 8 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to
four such packets. If (BIT_LENGTH == 0fh), the packet size is 16 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to two such packets. If (BIT_LENGTH == 1fh), the packet size is 32 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word holds exactly one such packet.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
In the Packed Mode, if the packet size is 4 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 8, or if the packet size is 8 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 4, or if the packet size is 16 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 2, then the last word in the Tx FIFO contains only the residual number (after dividing by 8, 4, or 2) of packets together with some number (28/24/20/16/12/8/4 if packet size is 4, 24/16/8 if Packet size is 8, or 16 if packet size is 16) of irrelevant random bits originally in the last Tx FIFO word. These irrelevant random bits will be ignored and not transmitted by the controller. In other words, the controller stops transmitting after finishing the last packet (of the not fully packed Tx FIFO word). On the receiver side, receiving also stops after the last packet, thus leaving the remaining number (28/24/20/16/12/8/4 if Packet size is 4, 24/16/8 if packet size is 8, or 16 if packet size is 16) of bits in the last Rx FIFO word untouched or irrelevant for the received packet. Packets are placed in the Tx/Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified. Unpacked Mode (SPI_COMMAND_0.PACKED == 0):
- Packet size is (SPI_COMMAND_0.BIT_LENGTH + 1)
In the Unpacked Mode, there is no packing of packets in the Tx/Rx FIFO word. It uses exactly one Tx/Rx FIFO word for one packet transmitting/receiving regardless of Packet sizes, thus leaving some bits unused. Unpacked Mode is always used for transmitting/receiving of all transfer sizes smaller than 32 bits. Packets are placed in the Tx/Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified.
- Byte and Bit Endianness
A packet can be transmitted or received in Little Endian or Big Endian format at both the Byte and Bit level as defined by the En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit field in the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register. If (En_LE_Byte == 1), the bytes in a Packet are arranged in Big Endian; otherwise, Little Endian. If (En_LE_Bit == 1), the bits in a byte are arranged in Little Endian; otherwise, Big Endian. The table below explains how a 48-bit data ([47:0]) in three 16-bit Packets ({P2[15:0], P1[15:0], P0[15:0]}) is arranged according to the settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit.
- Table 10.111 Byte/Bit-Endian Arrangement
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Byte/Bit-Endian Arrangement
- P2([8:15],[0:7]), P1([8:15],[0:7]), P0([8:15],[0:7])
- P2([15:8],[7:0]), P1([15:8],[7:0]), P0([15:8],[7:0])
- P2([0:7],[8:15]), P1([0:7],[8:15]), P0([0:7],[8:15])
- P2([7:0],[15:8]), P1([7:0],[15:8]), P0([7:0],[15:8])

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- The following examples explain the effects of En_LE_Byte and En-LE_Bit with Unpacked and
Packed Mode.
- Unpacked Mode
Consider a 24-bit data ([23:0]) as three 8-bit Packets ({B2[7:0], B1[7:0], B0[7:0]} for Tx/Rx. Tx: The 24-bit data ([23:0]) is stored in a Tx FIFO word (Column C) according to the settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit, then transmitted on the MOSI line Least Significant Bit first (Column D).
- Table 10.112 Transmission of Unpacked Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Byte/Bit-Endian-Arranged Data in Tx FIFO
- Word for Tx
- Data Bit Sequence Tx'd on MOSI Line
(Right-most Bit First) {8'bx,[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {8'bx,[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {8'bx,[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {8'bx,[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} {[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} Rx: Bits are received in the same sequence they were transmitted (Column C), then placed in a Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified (Column D)
- Table 10.113 Receiving of Unpacked Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Data Bit Sequence Rx'd from MISO Line
(Right-most Bit First)
- Data Arranged in Rx FIFO Word after Being
- Rx'd
{[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {8'bx,[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {8'bx,[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {8'bx,[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} {8'bx,[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]}
- Packed Mode
Consider a 48-bit data ([47:0]) as 3 16-bit Packets ({P2[15:0], P1[15:0], P0[15:0]}) for Tx/Rx.
- Tx: The 48-bit data ([47:0] is stored in two Tx FIFO words (Column C) according to the
settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit, then transmitted on the MOSI line Least Significant Bit first (Column D).

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- Table 10.114 Transmission of Packed Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Byte/Bit-Endian-Arranged Data in Tx
- FIFO Words for Tx
- Data Bit Sequence Tx'd on MOSI Line (Right-
most Bit First) {16'bx,[40:47],[32:39]}, {[24:31],[16:23],[8:15], [0:7]} {[40:47],[32:39],[24:31],[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {16'bx,[47:40],[39:32]}, {[31:24],[23:16],[15:8], [7:0]} {[47:40],[39:32],[31:24],[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {16'bx,[32:39],[40:47]}, {[16:23],[24:31],[0:7], [8:15]} {[32:39],[40:47],[16:23],[24:31],[0:7],[8:15]} {16'bx,[39:32],[47:40]}, {[23:16],[31:24],[7:0], [15:8]} {[39:32],[47:40],[23:16],[31:24],[7:0],[15:8]} Rx: Bits are received in the same sequence they were transmitted (Column C), then placed in two Rx FIFO words Least-Significant-Bit-justified (Column D)
- Table 10.115 Receiving of Packed Data
A B C D
- En_LE
_Byte
- En_LE
_Bit
- Data Bit Sequence Rx'd from MISO Line
(Right-most Bit First)
- Data Arranged in Rx FIFO Words after
- Being Rx'd
{[40:47],[32:39],[24:31],[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {16'bx,[40:47],[32:39]}, {[24:31],[16:23],[8:15], [0:7]} {[47:40],[39:32],[31;24],[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {16'bx,[47:40],[39:32]}, {[31:24],[23:16],[15:8], [7:0]} {[32:39],[40:47],[16:23],[24:31],[0:7],[8:15]} {16'bx,[32:39],[40:47]}, {[16:23],[24:31],[0:7], [8:15]} {[39:32],[47:40],[23:16],[31:24],[7:0],[15:8]} {16'bx,[39:32],[47:40]}, {[23:16],[31:24],[7:0], [15:8]}
##### 10.14.2.2.3 PIO and DMA Modes
PIO and DMA are the two main operational Modes of the SPI controller. When the number of FIFO words needed to hold the total number of packets for transmitting/receiving is less than or equal to 64 (depth of the Tx/Rx FIFO) the PIO Mode is used. Otherwise, the DMA Mode is used. In other words, the transfer size is limited to 64 (the Tx/Rx FIFO depth) 32-bit words worth of Packed/
- Unpacked Packets for the PIO Mode, and 2 16 (64 Ki, as indicated by
- SPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0.DMA_BLOCK_SIZE) 32-bit words, or 256 KiB worth of Packed/Unpacked
Packets for the DMA Mode. For data blocks with sizes larger than the limits (for PIO or DMA Mode), multiple (PIO or DMA) transfers will be used to complete transferring such data blocks as in
- Continuous Mode. In either PIO or DMA Mode, the SPI controller sends an Interrupt to the
processor at the end of each transfer.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
For details of the DMA operations, refer to the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter.
- Continuous Mode
Continuous Mode means:
- In Master Mode, the SPI Controller can transfer data continuously with an external device,
unless Interrupted by software.
- In Slave Mode, the SPI Controller can transfer data continuously with an external device,
unless Interrupted by software or an external Master deasserts chip select (CS). In the CS deassert case, the SPI controller can generate an Interrupt based on Interrupt mask bit.
- This mode can be enabled only in DMA mode, not in PIO mode. The SPI controller disregards
the DMA_BLOCK_SIZE Register in this mode.
- SPI Controller Configured as Master
When the SPI Controller is configured as a Master, it can transfer any amount of data unless software disables the SPI Controller by clearing (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit in the
- SPI_DMA_CTL_0 Register. The SPI Controller generates CS and SCK accordingly throughout the
data transfer. Along with the SPI Controller, the GPC DMA also needs to be configured in Continuous Mode. Refer to the General Purpose DMA chapter of this TRM for more information. Errors and Interrupt generation: In Master Continuous Mode, the SPI controller will not generate Tx FIFO Underflow or Rx FIFO
- Overflow errors. These errors generally occur in Slave mode when the GPC DMA does not
write data into the Tx FIFO or does not read data from the Rx FIFO fast enough due to system bandwidth/arbitration issues. In such cases, the SPI Controller keeps waiting for the GPC
- DMA to write data into the Tx FIFO or read data from the Rx FIFO. During such waiting
periods (Idle periods), the SPI Controller stops generating SCK but keeps CS asserted. Once data is available in the Tx FIFO or enough space is available in Rx FIFO, the SPI Controller resumes the data transfer and generates SCK, continuing the CS in the asserted state. Disabling the SPI Controller in Master Continuous Mode: In Master Continuous Mode, the SPI Controller can be disabled only by clearing (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit by software. The SPI Controller will not be disabled in any other way by hardware.
- Generally, software is recommended to clear (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit when the
Controller is in the Idle state. If software clears the DMA_EN bit during the Active state (when a transaction is in process, i.e., CS is asserted and SCK is present), the SPI Controller writes the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in the shift Register) up to the point before disabling the DMA_EN bit into the Rx FIFO and increments the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- SPI Controller Configured as Slave
When the SPI Controller is configured as a Slave, it can transfer any amount of data unless:
- Software disables the SPI Controller by clearing the DMA_EN bit (write "1" to clear) (or)
External SPI Master Device deasserts Chip Select. External SPI Master stops sending SCK for SLV_IDLE_COUNT number of clocks.
##### 10.14.2.2.4 Errors and Interrupt Generation
In Slave Continuous Mode, the SPI controller will generate Tx FIFO Underflow or Rx FIFO Overflow errors. These errors generally occur when GPC DMA does not write data into the Tx FIFO or does not read data from Rx FIFO fast enough due to system bandwidth/arbitration issues. In such cases, the SPI Controller generates an error condition, sets the TX_FIFO_UNF or RX_FIFO_OVF bits, and generates an Interrupt. If an Overflow happens, data in the Rx FIFO will not be corrupted.
##### 10.14.2.2.5 Disabling the SPI Controller in Slave Continuous Mode
In Slave Continuous Mode, the SPI Controller can be disabled by software clearing the DMA_EN bit. Generally, software is recommended to clear the DMA_EN bit when the SPI Controller is in the Idle state (the Idle state is defined as when there is no input SCK to the SPI Slave from the External Master device and/or CS is inactive). If software clears the DMA_EN bit during the Active state (the Active state is defined as when there is an input SCK to the SPI Slave from the External Master device and CS is active), the SPI Controller will write the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in shift Register) into the Rx FIFO and increments BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register.
##### 10.14.2.2.6 Disabling the SPI Controller by an External Master Device
When the SPI Controller is configured in Slave Continuous Mode, the External Master can start a data transfer by generating CS and SCK to the Slave SPI. Once the External Master finishes the data transfer (Tx, Rx, or both), it will stop generating SCK and then deassert CS. The SPI Slave treats this as an end of transaction and generates an Interrupt along with clearing the DMA_EN bit. The SPI Controller will write the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in the shift Register before CS is deasserted) into the Rx FIFO and increments the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register. This will be true even if CS is deasserted in an unaligned word boundary (i.e. CS deassertion can happen only at a packet boundary).
- In Slave Error cases (RX_FIFO_OVF), the BLK_CNT counter in the
SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register is incremented first and then the Rx FIFO is written. So when
- RX_FIFO_OVF happens, the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register also shows
1 word extra compared to what is actually present in the Rx FIFO.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
In Non-continuous Mode, the SPI Controller does not generate a CS_DEASSERT Interrupt at the very end when the actual programmed blk_size is done. That time CS is deasserted by the Master normally. Software will get a completion Interrupt in this case.
- CS_INACTIVE Bit in SPI FIFO Control/Status Register (SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0)
In the CS deassert case, the SPI controller can generate Interrupts, provided the Interrupt Mask bit is set Low (Interrupt enabled) by software and (SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0.CS_INACTIVE == 1) indicating CS is deasserted by an External Master. Software needs to clear this bit while addressing the Interrupt. On the other hand, if the Interrupt Mask bit is set High (Interrupt not enabled), SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0.CS_INACTIVE may still be set High by the SPI Controller but will not generate an Interrupt. If the CS deassert Interrupt mask is set Low (i.e., the Interrupt is enabled), the SPI Slave Controller generates an Interrupt when all the data in the Rx shift Register is written into the Rx FIFO. Whenever external master deasserts CS, SPI slave will always set the CS_INACTIVE status bit and generate interrupt based on interrupt mask. Pause is a feature which when set will not terminate the transfer in case of CS deassertion by external master.
- In both the above cases, CS deassertion Interrupt generation is independent of the Clock
provided by the External Master.
- FRAME_END in SPI FIFO Control/Status Register
- In Slave Continuous Mode, if SCK is not received for the number of clocks specified in the
SLV_IDLE_COUNT field and CS is asserted, then the continuous mode is terminated and this status bit is set. Continuous Mode is terminated if the condition is met. In this case, an Interrupt is generated. Software has two use cases: 1. In Slave Continuous mode, software mainly will use the pause feature (set PAUSE bit to "1"), because the use case is such that there will be continuous audio streaming and it is not desired for the Slave to be stopped based on CS deassert. In Slave non-continuous mode, where the use case is based on variable length data coming in from the external Master, software will use the non-pause feature (enable the CS deassert
- Interrupt) so that software can read the received chunk of data based on the CS deassert
Interrupt with frame_end remaining deasserted. 2.
- In the Non-Pause case, continuous mode termination can happen with CS deasserted or DMA
disabled (DMA_EN = 0).In the Pause case, continuous mode termination can happen only with DMA disable. Until the DMA is disabled, it is the same continuous mode transaction and continues forever until the DMA is disabled.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
#### 10.14.2.3 Error Conditions
When the SPI controller is configured as a Master, the following error scenarios can happen:
- Tx FIFO Overflow
Tx FIFO overflow occurs when the DMA writes into the Tx FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the TX_FIFO_OVF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The
- SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the TX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK bit in the
- SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must
remove the cause of Tx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_OVF bit by writing "1" to it.
- To start a new transaction, software must flush the Tx FIFO by writing "1" to the
TX_FIFO_FLUSH bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register.
- Rx FIFO Overflow
Rx FIFO overflow occurs when the DMA writes into the Rx FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the RX_FIFO_OVF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The
- SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the RX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK bit in
the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the RX_FIFO_OVF bit by writing "1" to it.
- To start a new transaction, software must flush the Rx FIFO by writing "1" to the
RX_FIFO_FLUSH bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register.
- Tx FIFO Underflow
- Tx FIFO Underflow occurs when the DMA reads from the Tx FIFO when it is empty. In this
case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the TX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the TX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_UNF bit by writing "1" to it before a new transaction can start.
- Rx FIFO Underflow
- Rx FIFO Underflow occurs when the DMA reads from the Rx FIFO when it is empty. In this
case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the RX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the RX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_UNF bit by writing "1" to it before a new transaction can start. Note: In Master Mode, all the errors above can happen only when the CPU/GPC_DMA reads/writes an empty/full FIFO. The SPI controller will never write/read a full/empty FIFO. Instead the controller

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
will pause (stops sending clocks to the Slave with chip select being in an active state) whenever the FIFOs are full/empty. When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, the following error scenarios can happen:
- Tx FIFO Overflow
- Tx FIFO Overflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller writes into the Tx
FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/
- DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with TX_FIFO_OVF bit in the status
Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and TX_FIFO_OVF bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and then flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- Rx FIFO Overflow
- Rx FIFO Overflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller writes into Rx
FIFO when it is full in BOTH_EN Mode. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with RX_FIFO_OVF bit in the status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled.
- Software has to clear the error bit and RX_FIFO_OVF bit along with the Interrupt bit. To
start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/ Status Register.
- Tx FIFO Underflow
- Tx FIFO Underflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller reads from Tx
FIFO when it is empty. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the
- PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with the TX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI
- FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are
enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and TX_FIFO_UNF bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- Rx FIFO Underflow
- Rx FIFO Underflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller reads from the
- Rx FIFO in BOTH_EN Mode. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting
the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with the RX_FIFO_UNF bit in the
- SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts
are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and RX_FIFO_UNF bit along with the
- Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending
clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- CS_inactive

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave and CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_n in
the SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 Register is set, if an external Master deasserts the chip select in the middle of a transaction, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/ DMA_EN bit to "0," and sets the CS_INACTIVE bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register.
- The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear
the CS_INACTIVE bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. It is software's responsibility to read the data that is left out of the Rx FIFO for CS inactive.
- For example, if the Interrupt trigger is set for four words and external Master has taken
the CS off in between the transfer, and at that point of time the Rx FIFO has only two words, it is software's responsibility to read out those two words or flush the FIFO.
- Frame_End
- When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave and DMA-continuous and
- CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_n in the SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 Register is set, if an
external Master stops sending clocks for more than Slave_idle_clock_count programmed in the Register, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the DMA bit to "0," and sets the FRAME_END bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the FRAME_END bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/
- RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. If the Master resumes the clk
within "Slave_idle_clock_count", the SPI controller will also pause and resume the transaction whenever ext_clk is available.
#### 10.14.2.4 Programming Guidelines
There are two basic modes of operation: DMA and PIO modes. It is required that software sets up all parameters in the following registers before enabling the SPI_COMMAND_0.PIO bit for any of these modes.
- SPI_COMMAND_0
- SPI_COMMAND2_0
- SPI_TIMING_REG1_0
- SPI_TIMING_REG2_0
- SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0
- SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0
- SPI_DMA_CTL_0
- SPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
##### 10.14.2.4.1 PIO Mode
This mode is enabled by writing "1" to the PIO bit in the SPI Command1 Register. In this mode, the SPI controller transmits/receives as many packets as configured by software in the SPI Block Size Register.
- PIO Mode has the same features as DMA Mode. The difference between PIO Mode and DMA Mode
is that in PIO Mode, the maximum number of packets that can be transmitted or received is less than or equal to 64.
##### 10.14.2.4.2 DMA Mode
This mode is enabled by writing "1" to the DMA bit in the SPI DMA Control Register. In this mode, the SPI controller transmits or receives the number of packets as indicated by the BLOCK_SIZE field in the SPI Block Size Register. If the PACKED bit is set and BIT_LEN is set to 7, then all FIFO words contain four packets to transfer (transmit or receive). Packets are transferred as per the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte bit configurations (see the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte Modes section), with packet 0 in byte 0 of the FIFO and packet 3 in byte 3 of the FIFO. In Unpacked Mode, if BIT_LEN is set to N, each packet will consist of (N + 1) bits. These bits will be transmitted/received in the Tx FIFO/Rx FIFO as per the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte bit configurations (see the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte Modes section). Any remaining bits in the FIFO will be ignored by the hardware. The maximum packet length is 32, which can be selected by setting BIT_LEN to "31". In this case, all data bits in the FIFO contain valid packet data. A DMA request will be generated to GPC_DMA in this mode depending on the setting of Tx_TRIG and Rx_TRIG. If transmits are enabled, setting Tx_TRIG to "00" generates a Tx DMA request whenever the Tx FIFO has one word of space available (if not full). Setting Tx_TRIG to "01" generates a Tx DMA request whenever the Tx FIFO has four words of space available. If receives are enabled, setting Rx_TRIG to "00" will generate an Rx DMA request whenever the Rx FIFO has one word of data available (is not empty). Setting Rx_TRIG to "01" generates an Rx DMA request whenever the Rx FIFO has four words of data available.
##### 10.14.2.4.3 Interrupt Generation
The SPI controller generates an Interrupt to the processor at the end of a transfer in PIO Mode or when an error is detected in PIO or DMA Mode. An Interrupt is generated whenever RDY or one of the FIFO status bits in the SPI FIFO Control/ Status Register is set by the hardware. During transmits, when the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, if software/GPC DMA cannot fill the transmit FIFO fast enough, hardware will set the TX_FIFO_UNF bit and an Underflow condition

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
is generated. If software tries to write to a full Tx FIFO, hardware sets the TX_FIFO_OVF bit as an indication that software attempted to Overflow the Tx FIFO. Hardware makes sure that the Overflowing data is never written to the Tx FIFO. During receives, when the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, if software/GPC DMA cannot read the receive FIFO fast enough, hardware will set the RX_FIFO_OVF bit and an Overflow condition is generated. However, if software tries to read from an empty Rx FIFO, hardware sets the RXF_UNF bit as an indication that software attempted to Underflow the Rx FIFO. The Interrupt can be cleared by writing a "1" to the source of the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of RDY, then writing a "1" to the RDY bit clears the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of TX_FIFO_OVF, then writing a "1" to the TXF_OVF bit clears the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of RX_FIFO_UNF, then writing a "1" to RXF_UNF bit clears the Interrupt. Guideline for DMA use cases: In DMA Mode, if Interrupts are enabled, the SPI software driver has to deal with three Interrupts: one from the SPI controller and two from the Tx and Rx GPC DMA channels. This might make it complicated for the driver and also stresses the system. In such cases, software can use the Rx DMA Interrupt as the final one at which point all hardware activities can be assumed to be complete. But, in variable transfer lengths (continuous mode), software has to rely on the controller's Interrupts.
##### 10.14.2.4.4 Clock Initialization and Control
The SPI controller runs at 50 MHz at its interface to external SPI devices. The internal SPI controller clock (spi_clk) should run at the same frequency as the outgoing Interface Clock (SCK_Out) in Master Mode. In Slave Mode, however, the internal SPI interface clock frequency has to be 50% greater than the external clock (SCK_in). Note: The ratio between the Slave core clock and the Slave interface clock must be maintained at 1.5x. For example if the Slave interface clock is running at 10 MHz, the Slave core clock must not be less than 10x 1.5 MHz.
- Controller Enable
The SPI controller can be enabled in two ways:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_0.CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 1), where i = 1, 2,
3.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_SET_0.SET_CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 1),
where i = 1, 2, 3. Correspondingly, to disable the SPI controller:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_0.CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 0), where i = 1, 2,
3.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_CLR_0.CLR_CLK_ENB_SPI<i> =
1), where i = 1, 2, 3. In addition, the SPI controller can select its clock source with proper setup:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SPI<i>_0.SPI<i>_CLK_SRC = n), where i = 1, 2,
3, and n = 0, 6, 7. The selected clock is further divided by a factor m set by the following:
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SPI<i>_0.SPI<i>_CLK_DIVISOR =
(2m-2)), where i = 1, 2, 3. See the Clock Controller and Reset chapter for more information on controller enable and clock configuration.
- Controller Reset
The SPI controller can be reset in two different ways: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_0.SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_SET_0.SET_SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i =
1, 2, 3. Correspondingly, to bring the SPI controller out of Reset mode: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_0.SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 0), where i = 1, 2, 3.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_CLR_0.CLR_SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i =
1, 2, 3. See the Reset chapter for more information on SPI controller reset.
##### 10.14.2.4.5 Slave Mode GPIO Synchronization
Because SPI does not support flow control, the GPIO is required to have the proper communication to avoid any clock loss from the Master. GPIO can be used in the following way for proper synchronization: SPI Slave client software writes to the Config Registers of the SPI controller and make the SPI Slave ready.
- After that, the Slave client software toggles GPIO to inform the Master that the Slave is
ready. Then the SPI Master sends SCK to the Slave device. If there is no GPIO to tell the Master that the Slave is ready, there is a chance to lose clock/data.

- Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
- Guidelines
This section provides guidelines for programming the SPI controller: Program all the required Register fields (no particular order is required except for the PIO/ DMA bit, which has to be programmed last):
- Clock Mode
- Packed/Unpacked Mode
- Tx_EN/Rx_EN
- BOTH_EN_BIT
- En_LE_Bit/En_LE_Byte
- BIT_LEN and BLOCK_SIZE values
- CS_SW_HW (software based or hardware based)
- - If CS_SW_HW is set, the value on CS_SW_VAL will be driven out. When CS hardware is used program the setup and hold values in the CS Timing Register.
- Program the DMA Trig values appropriately, if DMA Mode is used
- Enable Interrupts if PIO Mode is used
Program PIO or DMA to indicate the start of transfer. Once the software enables PIO/DMA, no required bits can be changed until the end of transfer except for PIO/DMA bit. Clearing the PIO/DMA bit ends the transaction. In case the SPI controller is configured to Receive Mode and software clears the PIO/DMA bit, then the partial data which the controller received until then will be written into the FIFO. This is true both for Master and Slave. In Slave Mode after PIO or DMA is set, hardware first waits for the CS to go Low by one of the four Masters. Then on reception of SCK, transfer begins. If CS or SCK is removed by the Master in the middle of a transfer, software must terminate the transaction by clearing the PIO/DMA bit. In case of Rx, hardware then writes the last received packet (incomplete packet) to the Rx FIFO. If software does not clear the PIO/DMA bit, the SPI controller will keep waiting for the SCK from the Master. If SCK resumes later, the transaction continues from where it paused earlier. If any error conditions occur, hardware will set the corresponding status bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register and stop the transfer. If IE is enabled, an Interrupt is generated. Software has to clear the source of the Interrupt by writing a "1" to it, after the completion of ISR.
- Special Guidelines for Slave Mode
Software should not program the controller Register when the interface clock is toggling. Software can disable the external clock input before programming the Registers and then re-enable it once all the Registers bits are programmed. One bit was added to the SPI controller (EXT_CLK_EN in Register SPI_MISC_0) to enable external Master clock. Software is required to enable this bit after all other Slave programming is done (after PIO/DMA bit is set). This bit works like a GATE for the external master clock.

- SPI Registers
- Software should not configure Slave Registers or apply reset when external Master clock is
toggling. If needed, software should GATE the clock by writing "0" to this bit and enable back when configuration or reset is done. For a completely successful transfer, the Master starts the actual transfer (enable both CLK and CS) after at least five cycles after EXT_CLK_EN is enabled in the Slave.
- In all other scenarios where the Master started communication to Slave and EXT_CLK_EN is
not enabled in advance, you may see data corruption.
- Guidelines for Transferring Data with GPC-DMA
- When the external device stops sending data after a (unknown) logical boundary, software
programs GPCDMA for the maximum possible data transfer size based on the use case. SPI is programmed for 64B/16W Rx mode as trigger level. GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MMIO burst size.
- GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MC burst size (default value is in the
specification, so there is no need to program explicitly).
- SPI generates an Interrupt to the CPU when all the packets are written to Rx FIFO (for Rx
transfers) or all packets are read from Tx FIFO to send out (for Tx transfers).
- Based on this Interrupt, the software waits until the ongoing DMA transfer is complete by
checking (RXFIFO_COUNT < BURST) or (DMAREQ_RX == Low) before disabling the DMA. If SPI has residual data in the buffer, the software reads it via PIO mode.
##### 10.14.2.4.6 Programming Trimmers
The three programmable trimmers in the SPI controller are used only in Master Mode:
- SPI-Tx trimmer
- This trimmer is used in Master Tx mode to adjust/center the outgoing data with respect to
the outgoing clock.
- SPI-Rx trimmer
- This trimmer is used in Master Rx mode to delay the loopback clock to the Rx shift
- Registers. This trimmer is used to adjust the Master SCK with respect to the SPI Slave
device's Tx data.}.Body)
