# 10.15.4 QSPI Registers

Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers. There are two sets of the QSPI controller registers, one for each QSPI controller in the Orin SoC. The register descriptions below give the offset of each register within the QSPI controller's address range. The Base Addresses of the registers in these two QSPI controllers are specified in the Address Map section of the Orin TRM.
- QSPI_COMMAND_0

- QSPI Registers
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x4050001f (0b0100,00xx,x101,0000,0xx0,0x00,0x01,1111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 PIO:
- Program 1 after all the configuration fields are programmed to start the
transfer. Hardware clears this bit automatically after the transfer is done.
- Clearing of the bit by Software will stop the Shifter and latch the partial
data into FIFO. 0 = STOP 1 = PIO 0x1 M_S: 1 = Master Mode (internal Clock) 0 = RSVD 0 = RSVD 1 = MASTER 29:28 0x0 MODE: 11 = Mode3 10 = RSVD 01 = RSVD 00 = Mode0 (def); Only Master Mode-0 is supported. 0 = Mode0 1 = RSVD1 2 = RSVD2 3 = RSVD3 27:26 0x0 CS_SEL: 11 = RSVD 10 = RSVD 01 = RSVD 00 = chip select0 (def) 0 = CS0 1 = RSVD1 2 = RSVD2 3 = RSVD3 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE0:
- In Master Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value which is
connected to CS0 needs to be programmed 1 = CS0 Inactive value of external device is high 0 = CS0 Inactive value of external device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x0 CS_SW_HW: Software control of CS signal in Master Mode. 1 = CS controlled by software 0 = CS controlled by hardware 0 = HARDWARE 1 = SOFTWARE 0x1 CS_SW_VAL:
- When CS is controlled by Software this value is driven onto the selected CS
line. 1 = CS is high 0 = CS is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH

- QSPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

