# 10.16.1 Overview

- The SoC has eight Pulse Width Modulator (PWM) outputs. Each PWM output is based on a
frequency divider whose pulse width varies. Each has a programmable frequency divider and a programmable pulse width generator. The PWM controller supports one PWM output for each of its eight instances (PWM1 through PWM8). Each instance is allocated a 64 KB independent address space. Frequency division is a 13-bit programmable value, and pulse division is an 8-bit value. The PWM can run at a maximum frequency of up to 408 MHz. The PWM controller can source its clock from either CLK_M or PLLP. CLK_M (19.2 MHz) is derived from the OSC clock (38.4 MHz). PLLP operates at 408 MHz.
- The PWM clock frequency is divided by 256 before subdividing it based on the programmable
frequency division value to generate the required frequency for the PWM output. The maximum output frequency that can be achieved from this configuration is 408 MHz/256 = 1.6 MHz. This 1.6 MHz frequency can be further divided using the frequency divisor in PWM.
- The OSC clock is the primary/default source for the PWM IP clock. For higher PWM output
frequency requirements, PLLP is the clock source (up to 408 MHz). An APB interface connects the register logic to the APB bus (see the chip block diagram in the Introduction chapter).
#### 10.16.1.1 PWM Diagrams
Each PWM controller contains one programmable pulse width modulator. Each generated pulse has an n/256 duty cycle. The figure below shows a pulse width diagram. The maximum frequency of the device clock is 408 MHz.

- Pulse Width Modulator (PWM)
**Figure 10.159 Pulse Width Diagram**
PWM signals are useful for LCD contrast and brightness control, VCO-generated clocks and other analog voltage references where high precision is not required. The PWM output is typically connected to a low-pass filter as shown in the figure below.
**Figure 10.160 Typical PWM Interface Diagram**

- Programming Guidelines
#### 10.16.1.2 Use Cases
There are eight potential PWM use cases. Seven of the use cases are driven from PWM instances in LSIO, and one is driven from AON (for fan control). The following table summarizes the instances and their naming conventions.
- Table 10.118 Use Case Summary and Naming Convention
- Instance Summary
- Clock Naming
- Pinmux
- Naming(1)
- PWM
- Interface
- Use Case
- Active in Low-
- Power State
(Always On block)
- PWM1
- Display1
- Backlight
- No
- Eight PWM ports,
eight instances of PWM controller pwm1_r_clk soc_gpio54 (GP_PWM1)
- PWM2
- GPU OVR
- No
pwm2_r_clk gp_pwm2 (GP_PWM2)
- PWM3
- CV OVR/General
- Purpose
- No
pwm3_r_clk gp_pwm3 (GP_PWM3)
- PWM4
- FAN Control
- Yes
pwm4_r_clk
- TOUCH_CLK
(GP_PWM4)
- PWM5
- CPU1 OVR/
- General Purpose
- No
pwm5_r_clk soc_gpio12 (GP_PWM5)
- PWM6
- CPU0 OVR (or
- CPU0 and CPU1
- OVR)
- No
pwm6_r_clk soc_gpio13 (GP_PWM6)
- PWM7
- SOC OVR
- No
pwm7_r_clk soc_gpio10 (GP_PWM7)
- PWM8
- Display2
- Backlight
- No
pwm8_r_clk soc_gpio37 (GP_PWM8) 1. Refer to the pinout for the latest information.

