# 10.15.2 Functional Description

The QSPI Controller is a Master on the QSPI bus. It has independent Tx and Rx FIFOs of 64 x 32 bits each for PIO mode and a FIFO of 40 x 64 bits for DMA mode. Because QSPI has only a half-duplex use-case, a single FIFO is used for Transmit (Tx) and Receive (Rx) in DMA mode. Software can program the controller to generate transactions of the required packet length on the QSPI bus in either direction. Software can manually read/write to the FIFOs in PIO mode. PIO mode can also use GPC_DMA to read and write from the independent transmit/receive FIFOs as required. For DMA mode, the native DMA engine is used to read and write from the FIFO to memory as required. At the end of each transaction, an interrupt may be generated if the interrupt mask is cleared. Software uses transmit or receive operations in combination with chip select (CS) control to generate commands on the QSPI bus. There are two system instances of QSPI in the SoC. These two instances QSPI0/1 are used as the primary boot from NOR flash.
#### 10.15.2.1 Flash Devices Configurations
The types of devices and their configurations in the following diagrams are possible with the QSPI controllers. Exact part selection is subject to platform design choices, cost, performance, and overall platform considerations.
**Figure 10.156 Single QSPI controller interfacing discrete package of x4 device**

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
**Figure 10.157 Two QSPI controllers driving one discrete package consisting of 2 x4 device**

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
**Figure 10.158 Two QSPI controllers driving two discrete packages each consisting of x4 device**
#### 10.15.2.2 Dual QSPI Bus Configuration
- Two QSPI controller instances are available to speed up boot payload and meet Automotive
platform boot KPIs. Each of the controller drives a single x4 port independently, and together effectively results in 2x bandwidth (240 MB/s due to reduced POR frequency). Partitioned payloads shall be flashed in two discrete x4 QSPI flashes or two x4 QSPI flashes on a single die.
#### 10.15.2.3 System Configuration
Platform requirements and usage flow models: QSPI flash can be used as the primary boot device and supports 120 MHz DDR configuration. Hardware drive strength calibration is used to compensate for variations at high-speed (>80 MHz DDR) operation. QSPI usage flow:
- Power on

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
- Drive strength calibration (Hardware)
- Trimmer tuning (Software)
- Load Payload for system boot (multiple phases of boot flow)
- Write accesses for minor updates
- Re-loading of payload when required
#### 10.15.2.4 Drive Strength Programming
##### 10.15.2.4.1 Drive Strength Programming Options
The QSPI interface requires the I/O drivers to have constant impedance for high-speed interface operations. Different options are possible to program drive up/down codes of QSPI interfaces. Required settings for different options and source of applied code details summarized in below table. The QSPI controller supports hardware managed interface drive strength calibration. Auto- Drive strength calibration sequence covered in programming section maps to option 3. BDSDMEMLVCOMP pad is used to calibrate driver impedance and provide the drive code to data/ control (BDSDMEMLV) pads. The data/control and comp pads for the QSPI interface only support the 1.8V I/O voltage.
- Table 10.116 Drive Strength Programming Options
- Drive Up/Dn Codes to Apply to Data/Control Pads
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_OV
- ERRIDE
- Optio
n
- DRV_TY
- PE
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_E
- NABLE
0x11 0 (default) 0 (default)
- Drive Up Code: 0xa
- Drive Dn Code: 0xa
- This option fixes the drive code (internal default drive
strength) applied to the pads and is meant for platforms that conform to the Design Guidelines. 0x01 0 (default) 0 (default) Drive Up Code: (QSPI_QSPI_COMP_CONTROL_0.
- COMP_PAD_DRVUP_OVR)
Drive Dn Code: (QSPI_QSPI_COMP_CONTROL_0.
- COMP_PAD_DRVDN_OVR)
- This option fixes the drive code applied by software
programming. Select this option when the platform requires qualification work to come up with drive codes.

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
- Drive Up/Dn Codes to Apply to Data/Control Pads
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_OV
- ERRIDE
- Optio
n
- DRV_TY
- PE
- QSPI_AUTO_C
AL_CONFIG_0.
- AUTO_CAL_E
- NABLE
0x01 0 (default)
- Drive Up Code: (Hardware auto-drive calibration
strength + (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PU_OFFSET))
- Drive Dn Code: (Hardware auto-drive calibration
strength + (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PD_OFFSET))
- This option allows the drive code to be applied based
on the hardware drive strength calibration as opposed to applying fixed drive codes.
- Select this option when Option 1 does not work
properly, or the static drive code fails such that periodic adjustment of the drive codes is needed to compensate for temperature changes. 0x01 Drive Up Code: (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PU_OFFSET) Drive Dn Code: (QSPI_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0.AUTO_CAL_PD_OFFSET)
- This option fixes the drive code applied by software
programming. It is an alternative to Option 2.
#### 10.15.2.5 Safety Mechanisms
##### 10.15.2.5.1 Functional Errors
The error conditions described earlier are functional errors that may be used as diagnostic measures to realize a system-level safety mechanism. These functional errors are classified as Non-Fatal errors and therefore do not have hardware channeling to the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM) block. In contrast, these functional error interrupts when enabled and routed to the Legacy
- Interrupt Controller (LIC) may be managed by the safety management software to realize the
safety mechanism desired. Each of the QSPI controllers has the following Interrupt masks to select/enable the corresponding functional errors to trigger such interrupts.
- Table 10.117 QSPI Functional Errors
- Functional Error
- Error Description
- Interrupt Mask Setting to Enable Interrupt
- Tx FIFO Overflow
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.TX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK = 0)
- Rx FIFO Overflow
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.RX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK = 0)
- Tx FIFO Underrun
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.TX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK = 0)
- Rx FIFO Underrun
(QSPI_INTR_MASK_0.RX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK = 0)

- Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI)
##### 10.15.2.5.2 Back Channel
In the back channel, data payload sent to the Flash device by the QSPI controller can benefit from a software-based CRC checksum. Such system-level software mechanisms can be employed to detect errors and recover from the detected errors using added redundancy or re-transmission to meet the safety requirements. Since the APB register configuration does not support Parity checking, errors within a QSPI controller are expected to manifest themselves as I/O bus errors, which can be detected and recovered using the same system-level software-based safety mechanism.

