# 10.11.2 Functional Description

@{Key=10.11.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The I2C controller supports both Master and Slave operations. The Master can address the internal slave (for basic testing) or an external 7-bit or 10-bit addressed Slave device. The Master can be programmed for either a single slave transaction or a two-slave transaction. The two-slave transaction is generally useful in a random read from an external device. When reading from an external device, the random read-address needs to be set with an initial dummy-write to the device, followed by a repeated-start and a read transaction to the same device. The internal Slave address can be programmed to be either a 7-bit or a 10-bit address. The figure below shows the I2C controller’s block diagram with master, slave, and bus clear controllers.
**Figure 10.148 I2C Controller Block Diagram**
#### 10.11.2.1 Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG)
- The I2C implements hardware-controlled Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) in both master and
slave controller logic to save power. It is enabled by default. There is also a provision to override SLCG using programmable register bit fields. The override bits are available per SLCG block in

- I2C Controller (I2C)
controller register bit fields. Also, the CAR module provides a global clock override signal using which all SCLGs can be disabled simultaneously.
#### 10.11.2.2 Bus Clear Master Operation
Bus clear logic helps to resolve I2C bus hang issues. If the data line (SDA) is permanently pulled low because a slave device is pulling it low continuously for some unknown reason, the I2C master loses the bus arbitration and stops driving the I2C bus. In this case, software can use the Bus Clear master to get the SDA line released by sending clock pulses on the SCL line. Per the I2C specification, the device that held the bus Low should release it sometime within nine clock pulses. But if the device needs more clock pulses than the default nine pulses, software has an option to do so by programming a configurable register bit field (I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD]) to the required number of clock pulses.
##### 10.11.2.2.1 Bus Clear Programming Procedure:
Upon ARB_LOST notification from the I2C controller, software initiates the Bus Clear operation. Note that ARB_LOST could be due to many reasons; for example, in a multi-master platform, any other master could occupy the I2C-bus already and if software initiates a data transfer from the I2C controller at this time, the I2C master would back-off or it may lose the bus during the bus- arbitration procedure if both masters start transfers simultaneously. In this case the I2C master notifies it with ARB_LOST status in packet mode of operation. Other ARB_LOST cases included programming issues such as controller register configuration, pin-muxing, pin tri-state clear, etc. The Bus Clear operation needs to be used only if the ARB_LOST notification is due to a slave device pulling the SDA line continuously low. I2C hardware does not identify on its own whether ARB_LOST is due to bus busy or another master transfer or slave device continuously pulling the SDA line low.
- Continue with the same clock settings as before or change if high or low frequency is
needed. 1.
- Reset the I2C controller using module reset bit CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_I2Cx_0
[SWR_I2Cx_RST] (where x=1,2,3,..,10) in CAR module after ARB_LOST notification from the controller.
- Program I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD] bit field to the required
number of clock pulses. If BC_TERMINATE=THRESHOLD is chosen, program BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD to N+1 where “N” is the required number of clock pulses on SCL line.
- Select STOP or NO_STOP condition using I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_STOP_COND]
bit field. Program I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_TERMINATE] as needed.
- Set I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] register bit field to 1 and wait until this
bit field is auto-cleared by Hardware to zero. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
7.
- Finally set I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_ENABLE] bit field to start the bus clear
operation. Hardware auto clears this bit after bus clear operation is done. Once enabled, bus clear logic starts sending clock pulses on the SCL line.
- Based on BC_TERMINATE settings,
8. 9. a.
- IMMEDIATE: Bus Clear logic sends clock pulses until SDA is released or the threshold count
is reached whichever is earlier or
- THRESHOLD: Send threshold number of clock pulses irrespective of SDA line release
status (released before threshold is reached or not-released with threshold count reached) b. 10. If SDA is released within the programmed number of clock pulses, Bus Clear logic terminates the transaction with STOP/No-STOP condition based on BC_STOP_COND settings.
- Then set the bus_clear operation status in I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_STATUS_0[BC_STATUS]
register bit field.
- Finally sets the BUS_CLEAR_DONE bit field in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 and also
interrupts the system if corresponding interrupt enable bit is set in
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0. So Software has to wait until it receives the
- BUS_CLEAR_DONE interrupt if interrupt method is used or BUS_CLEAR_DONE status bit set
if status-polling method is used before going for BUS CLEAR operation successful/fail status check in I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_STATUS_0[BC_STATUS]
- After receiving BUS_CLEAR_DONE interrupt, also check if
- I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_ENABLE] bit is auto-cleared by Hardware. If this bit is
not cleared, it means, I2C clock settings are not correct. Fix the clocks programming. 11. 12. 13. After the Bus Clear operation is done, an I2C controller reset is required in certain cases. See the following table for the details. 14.
- Table 10.89 I2C Controller Reset Required After Bus Clear
- Initial I2C Bus State
- BC_TERMINATE Setting
- BC_STOP_COND Setting
- Reset Required
- BUSY
- IMMEDIATE
- STOP
- No
- BUSY
- IMMEDIATE
- NO_STOP
- Yes
- BUSY
- THRESHOLD
- STOP
- No
- BUSY
- THRESHOLD
- NO_STOP
- Yes
- Free
- IMMEDIATE
- STOP
- No
- Free
- IMMEDIATE
- NO_STOP
- No
- Free
- THRESHOLD
- STOP
- No
- Free
- THRESHOLD
- NO_STOP
- No

- I2C Controller (I2C)
#### 10.11.2.3 Multi-Master Operation
- The I2C bus supports multi-master operation. That means there can be more than one master
device connected to the bus as shown in the figure below and each master can drive the bus to perform the data transfers. This could cause collisions when two or more masters try to drive the bus simultaneously and could result into bus corruption. To avoid this, there needs to be a method for deciding which device takes the bus control and complete its transmission. I2C uses clock synchronization and arbitration to achieve multi-master functionality.
**Figure 10.149 I2C Multi-Master Bus**
Clock synchronization is a process to synchronize the clocks of two or more master devices. For successful bus arbitration, a synchronized clock is needed. For this, each master device should monitor the bus SCL line and perform low and high transitions on its internal clock (SCL) line accordingly. Once a master pulls the SCL low, it holds the SCL line in that state until all masters have released it to put the clock into a high state. Similarly, the SCL line is high until the first master pulls it low. Arbitration is a process to determine which master can use the bus when two or more masters try to use the bus simultaneously. In normal transfers, only one master drives the bus if the bus is free. But if two masters initiate transfers simultaneously, arbitration is needed to determine which master wins the bus and complete its transaction. Arbitration is done using the SDA line. During every bit while the SCL line is HIGH, each master checks to see if the SDA line level matches what it has driven. If there is a mismatch, this master loses the arbitration and stops driving the SDA line. Other master goes ahead and completes its transaction. So no information is lost during the arbitration.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
Though data loss is not seen in multi-master arbitration but is given in the I2C specification, there are undefined conditions if the arbitration procedure is still in progress and the following happens:
- Master 1 sends a repeated START condition and Master 2 sends a data bit
- Master 1 sends a STOP condition and Master 2 sends a data bit
- Master 1 sends a repeated START condition and Master 2 sends a STOP condition
Note: The I2C specification does not indicate how to handle these cases. So the system designer has to consider these cases while designing an I2C multi-master system.
##### 10.11.2.3.1 Multi-Master Requirements
- Each master in a multi-master system should monitor the bus status so that it starts its
transmissions only when the bus is free. The bus is considered to be busy after the START condition. The bus is considered to be free again a certain time (minimum tBUF as given in the I2C specification) after the STOP condition. So if a device which needs the bus for its transmissions detects that the bus is busy, then it has to wait until the STOP condition is seen on the bus and then transmit its data. 1.
- All devices connected to a multi-master I2C bus must be multi-master capable. Otherwise, a
device with single master capability only may not detect the bus busy status and could interfere with on-going transactions on the bus causing the bus corruption. 2.
##### 10.11.2.3.2 I2C Usage Guidelines for Multi-Master Operation
- The I2C follows Multi-master bus requirements. When initiating a transfer by software, it
checks the I2C bus status and starts the transmission if the bus is free. It uses the bus START condition for Bus busy detection. 1.
- Bus Busy Detection: The I2C Master sets its internal Bus Busy status when it sees START
condition on the bus. The status remains busy until a STOP condition is seen. 2. In a multi-master system where I2C is used as one of the master devices, the I2C controller needs to be ON: 3. either from the beginning of the I2C bus enabled or a. when the bus is free
- So that the master detects the START condition of a transaction (if any) issued by another
master so bus busy does not interrupt on-going communications. b.
- For the I2C controller to be ON, its clocks need to be enabled and the reset needs to be
released. The clocks enable and Reset controls are in the CAR module. See the Clock and Reset Controller Registers section in the Clock Controller chapter. The clock controls from the CAR module are called first level clocks to the I2C controller. 4.
- If software implements any transaction level clock gating, it has to be disabled in multi-
master systems. 5.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
6. The requirement is that the I2C controller should be ON as long as the bus is used in multi- master operation.
- Multi-Master in Normal Mode
In Multi-master cases, there is a difference between Normal and Packet Modes in the way I2C works. In Normal Mode, when software initiates a transfer from the I2C Master controller but the bus is busy, the controller waits until the bus becomes free and then goes on to complete the transaction.
- Multi-Master in Packet Mode
In Packet mode, when the I2C master is initiated for a data transfer but the bus is busy, the controller does not drive the bus. It cancels the current transaction and sets the ARB_LOST status.
- Software has to handle the ARB_LOST event with the procedure given in the section on Error
Handling.
##### 10.11.2.3.3 Low-Power Operation
I2C is a low-speed serial interface with only two bus lines (SCL, SDA) required. So from the I2C specification side, there is no low-power operation specifically defined for the interface. But to save the power, use the lowest possible speed, if performance is not needed. The following bus speeds are supported by I2C:
- Standard mode (Sm)
- Fast mode (Fm)
- Fast mode Plus (FM+
- High-speed mode (HS mode)
- SLCG
I2C has implemented SLCG, a power saving feature, and it is ON by default. Unless required, keep SLCG enabled during the functional transfers in real use cases.
- Slave Controller Disable
Slave logic has an enable bit, but keep it disabled if Slave logic is not needed.
- Idle Power Programming
In Single Master bus configurations, when the module is not used or interface is idle, disable the module clock by clearing the CLK_ENB_I2C bits in the CAR module. For example, the I2C1 clock

- I2C Controller (I2C)
enable bit is CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_I2C1_0[CLK_ENB_I2C1]. Software can clear this bit when it is seen that no transfers are needed from the I2C1 instance.
##### 10.11.2.3.4 Software Interfaces
A typical peripheral controller might require the following steps to communicate or control an external peripheral: 1. 2. 3. 4.
- Set up the registers
- Program the 'go' bit to start the interaction with the external peripheral
The peripheral controller collects the response from the peripheral and interrupts software
- Software reads the response
##### 10.11.2.3.5 Packet Flow
Information exchange between the hardware peripheral controller and software as described above can be classified into: 'Request' flow which can represent the register writes 'Response' flow for peripheral controller responses sent back to software 'Interrupt' flow for out-of-band handshakes between hardware and software Packets within a flow can be exchanged in a manner that requires full intervention from the CPU (PIO mode) or least intervention from the CPU (DMA mode). The I2C I/O packet structure is described below.
##### 10.11.2.3.6 I/O Packet Format
An I/O packet consists of a header and payload. The header consists of two parts: two words of generic header and one-four words of protocol-specific header.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
**Figure 10.150 I/O Packet**
I/O Packet Word 0 Word 0 of the I/O packet contains the Generic Header Word 0. The contents of generic header word 0 are described in the table below.
- Table 10.90 Generic I/O Header Word 0
- Bits
- Field
- Description
31:3
- Reserved
- Reserved
29:2
- ProtHdrS
z
- Size of the protocol-specific header in words
0 = 1 words 1 = 2 words 2 = 3 words 3 = 4 words For I2C, ProtHdrSz = 0 for request packets and 1 for response packets. 27:2
- Reserved
- Reserved
23:1
- PktId
PktId is an 8-bit field that identifies the packet. A peripheral controller might choose to log the packet ID for a packet that causes errors 15:1
- Controller
- ID
There might be multiple controllers supporting any format. For example, there might be four I2C controllers. The Controller ID field specifies the controller for which this packet is destined. 11:8
- Reserved
- Reserved

- I2C Controller (I2C)
- Bits
- Field
- Description
7:4
- Protocol
- The protocol is indicated in this field
0 = reserved 1 = I2C 2-15 = reserved 3:3
- Reserved
- Reserved
2:0
- PktType
- Packet type information
0 = request 1 = response 2 = interrupt 3 = stop 4~7 = reserved I/O Packet Word 1 Word 1 of the I/O packet contains Generic Header Word 1. The contents of Generic Header Word 1 are described in the table below.
- Table 10.91 Generic I/O Header Word 1
- Bits
- Field
- Description
31:16
- Reserved
- Reserved
15:0
- PayloadSi
ze
- Payload size in bytes
Note about Payload Size: For request packets that transmit data, the total packet size is: 8 bytes of generic header + 4 bytes of protocol-specific header + payload_size. However, for request packets with a read command, the payload size indicates the amount of data to be received. Hence the packet size is, 8 bytes of generic header + 4 bytes of protocol-specific header, because there is no payload in this packet, just the receive command.
##### 10.11.2.3.7 Transferring Packets
Packets can be transferred using PIO or DMA modes. The header is a minimum of three words with the first two words reserved for packet information and the third word reserved for protocol- specific requirements. A minimum of four words is needed to transfer one byte to the external peripheral.
##### 10.11.2.3.8 Protocol-Specific Header
I2C has Protocol-Specific Header with a size of one word. The contents of the I2C protocol-specific header are described in the next section.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
##### 10.11.2.3.9 I2C Master Packet Protocol-Specific Headers
The I2C master supports two kinds of packets. 1. 2. Transmit packets that flow from host to controller. Receive data packets that flow from controller to host.
- Table 10.92 I2C Master Transmit Packet Header
- Bit
- Name
- Description
31:26
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved. Program 0 to this bit field
- Reserved
- Reserved. Program 0 to this bit field
- Reserved
- Reserved
- HS_MODE
- Enable High speed mode (3.4 MHz operation)
- CONTINUE_ON_NA
- CK
Enable mode to handle devices that do not generate ACK upon the reception of a byte.
- SEND_START_BYTE
1 = Send a start byte at the beginning of the transaction
- READ/WRITE
1 = READ
- Address mode
1 = 10-bit mode 0 = 7-bit mode
- IE
- Generate interrupt upon packet completion. This is needed only for
- Packet_Xfer_Complete interrupt only. All_Packets_Xfer_Complete interrupt has no
dependency on this bit settings.
- REPEAT_START/
- STOP
1 = Put a repeat start condition on the bus (to continue transaction) 0 = Put a stop condition on the bus
- ContinueXfer
This bit overrides the REPEAT_START/STOP command above. 0: Introduce repeat start or stop condition based on bit 16. 1: Continue with current transfer without stop or repeat start condition. 14:12
- HS_MASTER_ADDR
- High Speed mode Master code
11:10
- Reserved
- Reserved
9:0
- SLAVE_ADDR
- Slave address. Bit 0 is ignored for 7-bit addressing, but should always match bit 19
(READ/WRITE). I2C transfer with Slave-address byte only is not supported in the controller.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
##### 10.11.2.3.10 Master Controller: Speed Modes in Normal and Packet Modes
- Table 10.93 Speed Modes in Normal/Packet Mode for I2C Master Controller
- Normal Mode
- Packet Mode
- Standard Mode (SM)
- Fast Mode (FM)
- Fast Mode Plus (FM+)
- Standard Mode (SM)
- Fast Mode (FM)
- Fast Mode Plus (FM+)
- HS Mode (HS)
##### 10.11.2.3.11 DMA Capabilities and Usage Model
Only the I2C Master controller has DMA capability. I2C Slave controllers have no DMA capability. I2C Master: 1. 2. 3. I/O Transfer size is always known ahead
- DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings
For DMA burst size not a multiple of the I/O transfer size in words:
- Use DMA + PIO or
- Use lowest DMA burst size possible (for example, 1 word)
◦ ◦ I/O Transfer
- Size
- DMA Burst
- Size
I/O FIFO Threshold 16*(DMA Burst size)
- Supported
8*(DMA Burst size)
- Supported
4*(DMA burst size)
- Supported
1*(DMA Burst size)
- Supported
Example:
- DMA Burst
- Size
I/O Transfer
- Size
- Supported/Not Supported
144 bytes = 36 words
- Not Supported
80 bytes = 20 words
- Not Supported
72 bytes = 18 words
- Not Supported
- Any size
- Supported

- I2C Programming Guidelines}(@{Key=10.11.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The I2C controller supports both Master and Slave operations. The Master can address the internal slave (for basic testing) or an external 7-bit or 10-bit addressed Slave device. The Master can be programmed for either a single slave transaction or a two-slave transaction. The two-slave transaction is generally useful in a random read from an external device. When reading from an external device, the random read-address needs to be set with an initial dummy-write to the device, followed by a repeated-start and a read transaction to the same device. The internal Slave address can be programmed to be either a 7-bit or a 10-bit address. The figure below shows the I2C controller’s block diagram with master, slave, and bus clear controllers.
**Figure 10.148 I2C Controller Block Diagram**
#### 10.11.2.1 Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG)
- The I2C implements hardware-controlled Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) in both master and
slave controller logic to save power. It is enabled by default. There is also a provision to override SLCG using programmable register bit fields. The override bits are available per SLCG block in

- I2C Controller (I2C)
controller register bit fields. Also, the CAR module provides a global clock override signal using which all SCLGs can be disabled simultaneously.
#### 10.11.2.2 Bus Clear Master Operation
Bus clear logic helps to resolve I2C bus hang issues. If the data line (SDA) is permanently pulled low because a slave device is pulling it low continuously for some unknown reason, the I2C master loses the bus arbitration and stops driving the I2C bus. In this case, software can use the Bus Clear master to get the SDA line released by sending clock pulses on the SCL line. Per the I2C specification, the device that held the bus Low should release it sometime within nine clock pulses. But if the device needs more clock pulses than the default nine pulses, software has an option to do so by programming a configurable register bit field (I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD]) to the required number of clock pulses.
##### 10.11.2.2.1 Bus Clear Programming Procedure:
Upon ARB_LOST notification from the I2C controller, software initiates the Bus Clear operation. Note that ARB_LOST could be due to many reasons; for example, in a multi-master platform, any other master could occupy the I2C-bus already and if software initiates a data transfer from the I2C controller at this time, the I2C master would back-off or it may lose the bus during the bus- arbitration procedure if both masters start transfers simultaneously. In this case the I2C master notifies it with ARB_LOST status in packet mode of operation. Other ARB_LOST cases included programming issues such as controller register configuration, pin-muxing, pin tri-state clear, etc. The Bus Clear operation needs to be used only if the ARB_LOST notification is due to a slave device pulling the SDA line continuously low. I2C hardware does not identify on its own whether ARB_LOST is due to bus busy or another master transfer or slave device continuously pulling the SDA line low.
- Continue with the same clock settings as before or change if high or low frequency is
needed. 1.
- Reset the I2C controller using module reset bit CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_I2Cx_0
[SWR_I2Cx_RST] (where x=1,2,3,..,10) in CAR module after ARB_LOST notification from the controller.
- Program I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD] bit field to the required
number of clock pulses. If BC_TERMINATE=THRESHOLD is chosen, program BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD to N+1 where “N” is the required number of clock pulses on SCL line.
- Select STOP or NO_STOP condition using I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_STOP_COND]
bit field. Program I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_TERMINATE] as needed.
- Set I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] register bit field to 1 and wait until this
bit field is auto-cleared by Hardware to zero. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
7.
- Finally set I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_ENABLE] bit field to start the bus clear
operation. Hardware auto clears this bit after bus clear operation is done. Once enabled, bus clear logic starts sending clock pulses on the SCL line.
- Based on BC_TERMINATE settings,
8. 9. a.
- IMMEDIATE: Bus Clear logic sends clock pulses until SDA is released or the threshold count
is reached whichever is earlier or
- THRESHOLD: Send threshold number of clock pulses irrespective of SDA line release
status (released before threshold is reached or not-released with threshold count reached) b. 10. If SDA is released within the programmed number of clock pulses, Bus Clear logic terminates the transaction with STOP/No-STOP condition based on BC_STOP_COND settings.
- Then set the bus_clear operation status in I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_STATUS_0[BC_STATUS]
register bit field.
- Finally sets the BUS_CLEAR_DONE bit field in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 and also
interrupts the system if corresponding interrupt enable bit is set in
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0. So Software has to wait until it receives the
- BUS_CLEAR_DONE interrupt if interrupt method is used or BUS_CLEAR_DONE status bit set
if status-polling method is used before going for BUS CLEAR operation successful/fail status check in I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_STATUS_0[BC_STATUS]
- After receiving BUS_CLEAR_DONE interrupt, also check if
- I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_ENABLE] bit is auto-cleared by Hardware. If this bit is
not cleared, it means, I2C clock settings are not correct. Fix the clocks programming. 11. 12. 13. After the Bus Clear operation is done, an I2C controller reset is required in certain cases. See the following table for the details. 14.
- Table 10.89 I2C Controller Reset Required After Bus Clear
- Initial I2C Bus State
- BC_TERMINATE Setting
- BC_STOP_COND Setting
- Reset Required
- BUSY
- IMMEDIATE
- STOP
- No
- BUSY
- IMMEDIATE
- NO_STOP
- Yes
- BUSY
- THRESHOLD
- STOP
- No
- BUSY
- THRESHOLD
- NO_STOP
- Yes
- Free
- IMMEDIATE
- STOP
- No
- Free
- IMMEDIATE
- NO_STOP
- No
- Free
- THRESHOLD
- STOP
- No
- Free
- THRESHOLD
- NO_STOP
- No

- I2C Controller (I2C)
#### 10.11.2.3 Multi-Master Operation
- The I2C bus supports multi-master operation. That means there can be more than one master
device connected to the bus as shown in the figure below and each master can drive the bus to perform the data transfers. This could cause collisions when two or more masters try to drive the bus simultaneously and could result into bus corruption. To avoid this, there needs to be a method for deciding which device takes the bus control and complete its transmission. I2C uses clock synchronization and arbitration to achieve multi-master functionality.
**Figure 10.149 I2C Multi-Master Bus**
Clock synchronization is a process to synchronize the clocks of two or more master devices. For successful bus arbitration, a synchronized clock is needed. For this, each master device should monitor the bus SCL line and perform low and high transitions on its internal clock (SCL) line accordingly. Once a master pulls the SCL low, it holds the SCL line in that state until all masters have released it to put the clock into a high state. Similarly, the SCL line is high until the first master pulls it low. Arbitration is a process to determine which master can use the bus when two or more masters try to use the bus simultaneously. In normal transfers, only one master drives the bus if the bus is free. But if two masters initiate transfers simultaneously, arbitration is needed to determine which master wins the bus and complete its transaction. Arbitration is done using the SDA line. During every bit while the SCL line is HIGH, each master checks to see if the SDA line level matches what it has driven. If there is a mismatch, this master loses the arbitration and stops driving the SDA line. Other master goes ahead and completes its transaction. So no information is lost during the arbitration.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
Though data loss is not seen in multi-master arbitration but is given in the I2C specification, there are undefined conditions if the arbitration procedure is still in progress and the following happens:
- Master 1 sends a repeated START condition and Master 2 sends a data bit
- Master 1 sends a STOP condition and Master 2 sends a data bit
- Master 1 sends a repeated START condition and Master 2 sends a STOP condition
Note: The I2C specification does not indicate how to handle these cases. So the system designer has to consider these cases while designing an I2C multi-master system.
##### 10.11.2.3.1 Multi-Master Requirements
- Each master in a multi-master system should monitor the bus status so that it starts its
transmissions only when the bus is free. The bus is considered to be busy after the START condition. The bus is considered to be free again a certain time (minimum tBUF as given in the I2C specification) after the STOP condition. So if a device which needs the bus for its transmissions detects that the bus is busy, then it has to wait until the STOP condition is seen on the bus and then transmit its data. 1.
- All devices connected to a multi-master I2C bus must be multi-master capable. Otherwise, a
device with single master capability only may not detect the bus busy status and could interfere with on-going transactions on the bus causing the bus corruption. 2.
##### 10.11.2.3.2 I2C Usage Guidelines for Multi-Master Operation
- The I2C follows Multi-master bus requirements. When initiating a transfer by software, it
checks the I2C bus status and starts the transmission if the bus is free. It uses the bus START condition for Bus busy detection. 1.
- Bus Busy Detection: The I2C Master sets its internal Bus Busy status when it sees START
condition on the bus. The status remains busy until a STOP condition is seen. 2. In a multi-master system where I2C is used as one of the master devices, the I2C controller needs to be ON: 3. either from the beginning of the I2C bus enabled or a. when the bus is free
- So that the master detects the START condition of a transaction (if any) issued by another
master so bus busy does not interrupt on-going communications. b.
- For the I2C controller to be ON, its clocks need to be enabled and the reset needs to be
released. The clocks enable and Reset controls are in the CAR module. See the Clock and Reset Controller Registers section in the Clock Controller chapter. The clock controls from the CAR module are called first level clocks to the I2C controller. 4.
- If software implements any transaction level clock gating, it has to be disabled in multi-
master systems. 5.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
6. The requirement is that the I2C controller should be ON as long as the bus is used in multi- master operation.
- Multi-Master in Normal Mode
In Multi-master cases, there is a difference between Normal and Packet Modes in the way I2C works. In Normal Mode, when software initiates a transfer from the I2C Master controller but the bus is busy, the controller waits until the bus becomes free and then goes on to complete the transaction.
- Multi-Master in Packet Mode
In Packet mode, when the I2C master is initiated for a data transfer but the bus is busy, the controller does not drive the bus. It cancels the current transaction and sets the ARB_LOST status.
- Software has to handle the ARB_LOST event with the procedure given in the section on Error
Handling.
##### 10.11.2.3.3 Low-Power Operation
I2C is a low-speed serial interface with only two bus lines (SCL, SDA) required. So from the I2C specification side, there is no low-power operation specifically defined for the interface. But to save the power, use the lowest possible speed, if performance is not needed. The following bus speeds are supported by I2C:
- Standard mode (Sm)
- Fast mode (Fm)
- Fast mode Plus (FM+
- High-speed mode (HS mode)
- SLCG
I2C has implemented SLCG, a power saving feature, and it is ON by default. Unless required, keep SLCG enabled during the functional transfers in real use cases.
- Slave Controller Disable
Slave logic has an enable bit, but keep it disabled if Slave logic is not needed.
- Idle Power Programming
In Single Master bus configurations, when the module is not used or interface is idle, disable the module clock by clearing the CLK_ENB_I2C bits in the CAR module. For example, the I2C1 clock

- I2C Controller (I2C)
enable bit is CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_I2C1_0[CLK_ENB_I2C1]. Software can clear this bit when it is seen that no transfers are needed from the I2C1 instance.
##### 10.11.2.3.4 Software Interfaces
A typical peripheral controller might require the following steps to communicate or control an external peripheral: 1. 2. 3. 4.
- Set up the registers
- Program the 'go' bit to start the interaction with the external peripheral
The peripheral controller collects the response from the peripheral and interrupts software
- Software reads the response
##### 10.11.2.3.5 Packet Flow
Information exchange between the hardware peripheral controller and software as described above can be classified into: 'Request' flow which can represent the register writes 'Response' flow for peripheral controller responses sent back to software 'Interrupt' flow for out-of-band handshakes between hardware and software Packets within a flow can be exchanged in a manner that requires full intervention from the CPU (PIO mode) or least intervention from the CPU (DMA mode). The I2C I/O packet structure is described below.
##### 10.11.2.3.6 I/O Packet Format
An I/O packet consists of a header and payload. The header consists of two parts: two words of generic header and one-four words of protocol-specific header.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
**Figure 10.150 I/O Packet**
I/O Packet Word 0 Word 0 of the I/O packet contains the Generic Header Word 0. The contents of generic header word 0 are described in the table below.
- Table 10.90 Generic I/O Header Word 0
- Bits
- Field
- Description
31:3
- Reserved
- Reserved
29:2
- ProtHdrS
z
- Size of the protocol-specific header in words
0 = 1 words 1 = 2 words 2 = 3 words 3 = 4 words For I2C, ProtHdrSz = 0 for request packets and 1 for response packets. 27:2
- Reserved
- Reserved
23:1
- PktId
PktId is an 8-bit field that identifies the packet. A peripheral controller might choose to log the packet ID for a packet that causes errors 15:1
- Controller
- ID
There might be multiple controllers supporting any format. For example, there might be four I2C controllers. The Controller ID field specifies the controller for which this packet is destined. 11:8
- Reserved
- Reserved

- I2C Controller (I2C)
- Bits
- Field
- Description
7:4
- Protocol
- The protocol is indicated in this field
0 = reserved 1 = I2C 2-15 = reserved 3:3
- Reserved
- Reserved
2:0
- PktType
- Packet type information
0 = request 1 = response 2 = interrupt 3 = stop 4~7 = reserved I/O Packet Word 1 Word 1 of the I/O packet contains Generic Header Word 1. The contents of Generic Header Word 1 are described in the table below.
- Table 10.91 Generic I/O Header Word 1
- Bits
- Field
- Description
31:16
- Reserved
- Reserved
15:0
- PayloadSi
ze
- Payload size in bytes
Note about Payload Size: For request packets that transmit data, the total packet size is: 8 bytes of generic header + 4 bytes of protocol-specific header + payload_size. However, for request packets with a read command, the payload size indicates the amount of data to be received. Hence the packet size is, 8 bytes of generic header + 4 bytes of protocol-specific header, because there is no payload in this packet, just the receive command.
##### 10.11.2.3.7 Transferring Packets
Packets can be transferred using PIO or DMA modes. The header is a minimum of three words with the first two words reserved for packet information and the third word reserved for protocol- specific requirements. A minimum of four words is needed to transfer one byte to the external peripheral.
##### 10.11.2.3.8 Protocol-Specific Header
I2C has Protocol-Specific Header with a size of one word. The contents of the I2C protocol-specific header are described in the next section.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
##### 10.11.2.3.9 I2C Master Packet Protocol-Specific Headers
The I2C master supports two kinds of packets. 1. 2. Transmit packets that flow from host to controller. Receive data packets that flow from controller to host.
- Table 10.92 I2C Master Transmit Packet Header
- Bit
- Name
- Description
31:26
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved. Program 0 to this bit field
- Reserved
- Reserved. Program 0 to this bit field
- Reserved
- Reserved
- HS_MODE
- Enable High speed mode (3.4 MHz operation)
- CONTINUE_ON_NA
- CK
Enable mode to handle devices that do not generate ACK upon the reception of a byte.
- SEND_START_BYTE
1 = Send a start byte at the beginning of the transaction
- READ/WRITE
1 = READ
- Address mode
1 = 10-bit mode 0 = 7-bit mode
- IE
- Generate interrupt upon packet completion. This is needed only for
- Packet_Xfer_Complete interrupt only. All_Packets_Xfer_Complete interrupt has no
dependency on this bit settings.
- REPEAT_START/
- STOP
1 = Put a repeat start condition on the bus (to continue transaction) 0 = Put a stop condition on the bus
- ContinueXfer
This bit overrides the REPEAT_START/STOP command above. 0: Introduce repeat start or stop condition based on bit 16. 1: Continue with current transfer without stop or repeat start condition. 14:12
- HS_MASTER_ADDR
- High Speed mode Master code
11:10
- Reserved
- Reserved
9:0
- SLAVE_ADDR
- Slave address. Bit 0 is ignored for 7-bit addressing, but should always match bit 19
(READ/WRITE). I2C transfer with Slave-address byte only is not supported in the controller.

- I2C Controller (I2C)
##### 10.11.2.3.10 Master Controller: Speed Modes in Normal and Packet Modes
- Table 10.93 Speed Modes in Normal/Packet Mode for I2C Master Controller
- Normal Mode
- Packet Mode
- Standard Mode (SM)
- Fast Mode (FM)
- Fast Mode Plus (FM+)
- Standard Mode (SM)
- Fast Mode (FM)
- Fast Mode Plus (FM+)
- HS Mode (HS)
##### 10.11.2.3.11 DMA Capabilities and Usage Model
Only the I2C Master controller has DMA capability. I2C Slave controllers have no DMA capability. I2C Master: 1. 2. 3. I/O Transfer size is always known ahead
- DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings
For DMA burst size not a multiple of the I/O transfer size in words:
- Use DMA + PIO or
- Use lowest DMA burst size possible (for example, 1 word)
◦ ◦ I/O Transfer
- Size
- DMA Burst
- Size
I/O FIFO Threshold 16*(DMA Burst size)
- Supported
8*(DMA Burst size)
- Supported
4*(DMA burst size)
- Supported
1*(DMA Burst size)
- Supported
Example:
- DMA Burst
- Size
I/O Transfer
- Size
- Supported/Not Supported
144 bytes = 36 words
- Not Supported
80 bytes = 20 words
- Not Supported
72 bytes = 18 words
- Not Supported
- Any size
- Supported

- I2C Programming Guidelines}.Body)
