# 10.14.3 SPI Registers

Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.

- SPI Registers
There are three sets of the SPI controller registers, one for each SPI controller in the SoC. The register descriptions below give the offset of each register within the SPI controller's address range. The Base Addresses of the registers in these three SPI controllers are specified in the Address Map section of the TRM.
- SPI_COMMAND_0
Programming sequence for basic data transmission. After the module-initialization (reset and clock programming), program the corresponding bits of the following registers, preferably in the same sequence: For PIO Mode:
- COMMAND: Set the type of transfer i.e., receive (bit 12), transmit (bit 11)
COMMAND: Set the bit_length (bits [4:0]), number of words (bits [9:5]), mode (mode 0, mode 1, mode 2 and mode 3) as below: Mode 0 --> 00 // Clock is positive polarity and the data is latched-in on the positive edge of SCK. Mode 1 --> 01 // Clock is positive polarity and the data is latched-in on the negative edge of SCK. Mode 2 --> 10 // Clock is negative polarity and the data is latched-in on the negative edge of SCK. Mode 3 --> 11 // Clock is negative polarity and the data is latched-in on the positive edge of SCK. TX_FIFO: Write data into TXFIFO COMMAND: Enable the PIO Bit (bit 31). For DMA mode:
- COMMAND: Set the type of transfer i.e., receive (bit 12), transmit (bit 11)
COMMAND: Set the bit_length (bits [4:0]), and mode as described above. Note that the bit length to be set accordingly when packed mode (bit 5) is set in the COMMAND register.
- Allowed bit_lengths in Packed Mode: BIT_LENGTH 0x03, 0x07, 0x0f, 0x1f
DMA_CTL: Set the DMA_BLOCK_SIZE (bits [15:0]), RX_TRIG (bits [20:19]), TX_TRIG (bits [16:15]) After setting all the parameters set DMA_EN(bit 31) to 1. The DMA request signals to the APBDMA controller are enabled by the spi COMMAND.Tx_EN and Rx_EN bits. Always program the DMA channels first. Enable the COMMAND.Tx_EN and Rx_EN bits last.
- SPI Sub Block Command Register

- SPI Registers
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x43d00000 (0b0100,0011,1101,0000,0000,0xxx,x000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 PIO:
- Program 1 after all the other bits in the COMMAND2 and COMMAND are
programmed to start the transfer. Hardware clears this bit automatically after the transfer is done. Clearing of the bit by Software will stop the Shifter and latch the partial data into buffer. 0 = STOP 1 = PIO 0x1 M_S: 1 = Master Mode (internal Clock) 0 = Slave Mode (external Clock) 0 = SLAVE 1 = MASTER 29:28 0x0 MODE: 11 = Mode3, 10 = Mode2, 01 = Mode1, 00 = Mode0 (def);
- When SPI is Master All four Modes are supported. When SPI is Slave
- Transmit supports Only Mode1 and Mode3 are supported. In Slave Receive
all the Modes are supported. 0 = Mode0 1 = Mode1 2 = Mode2 3 = Mode3 27:26 0x0 CS_SEL: 11 = chip select3, 10 = chip select2, 01 = chip select1, 00 = chip select0 (def) 0 = CS0 1 = CS1 2 = CS2 3 = CS3 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE3:
- In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value
which is connected to CS3 needs to be programmed. 1 = CS3 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS3 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE2:
- In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value
which is connected to CS2 needs to be programmed. 1 = CS2 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS2 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE1:
- In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value
which is connected to CS1 needs to be programmed. 1 = CS1 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS1 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH

- SPI Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE0:
- In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value
which is connected to CS0 needs to be programmed 1 = CS0 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS0 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x0 CS_SW_HW:
- Software control of SPI_CS signal in Master Mode. In Slave Mode this bit
need not be programmed. 1 = CS controlled by software 0 = CS controlled by hardware 0 = HARDWARE 1 = SOFTWARE 0x1 CS_SW_VAL:
- When CS is controlled by Software this value is driven onto the selected
CS line. 1 = CS is high 0 = CS is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 19:18 0x0 IDLE_SDA: 11 = Pull High, 10 = Pull Low, 01 = Driven High, 00 = Driven Low 0 = DRIVE_LOW 1 = DRIVE_HIGH 2 = PULL_LOW 3 = PULL_HIGH 0x0 BIDIR: 1 = bi directional mode. 0 = Normal mode 0 = NORMAL 1 = BIDIR 0x0 En_LE_Bit: 1 = Enable Little Endian Bit. 0 = Disable Little Endian Bit 0 = LAST 1 = FIRST 0x0 En_LE_Byte: 1 = Enable Little Endian Byte. 0 = Disable Little Endian Byte 0 = LAST 1 = FIRST 0x0 BOTH_EN_BIT: 1 = both lines transmit/receive. 0 = one line transmit and other receive 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BOTH_EN_BYTE: 1 = both lines transmit/receive. 0 = one line transmit and other receive 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 Rx_EN:
- Receive enable

