# 10.11.3 I2C Programming Guidelines

@{Key=10.11.3; Title=I2C Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 10.11.3.1 I2C Frequency Divisor Register
The FREQUENCY DIVISOR register (CLK_SOURCE_I2C register) must be programmed as a function of the CLK_SOURCE selected for I2C as follows:
- Note
In the below expressions, TLOW is used to represent I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0[TLOW]. Similarly
- THIGH: I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0[THIGH]
- HS_TLOW: I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0[HS_TLOW]
- HS_THIGH: I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0[HS_THIGH]
The clock enable (e.g., CLK_ENB_I2C1 bit for I2C1 instance) must also be set before any write and read access to the I2C registers.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.1 Example Settings for Various I2C Speeds
SM/FM/FM+ Speed Mode settings:
- Debou
nce
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C
- DataRat
e
- I2C_I2C_INTE
- RFACE_TIMIN
G_0_0
- I2C_CLK_DIV
- ISOR+1
- I2C_CLK_DIVI
- SOR
_STD_FAST_
- MODE+1
- I2C_CLK
_SRC
- I2C_CLK_SR
C
- Frequency
(in MHz)
- I2C
- SpeedMod
e (TLO W+1) (THIG H+1) (TSU_ST A+1) (THD_ST A+1) (TSU_ST O+1) (TBUF +1)
- FM+
- PLLP_OUT
(2+1) = 3 (36+1) = 37 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 918kHz
- FM
- PLLP_OUT
(2+1) = 3 (88+1) = 89 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 382kHz
- SM
- PLLP_OUT
(2+1) = 3 (79+1) = 80 (8+1) = (7+1) = (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 100kHz High-Speed (HS) Mode settings: Note: For HS transfers, both Non-HS and HS timing registers need to be programmed as Master code is sent in a Non-HS speed mode. For this, use one of speed modes (SM or FM or FM+) settings from the above table. For data transfers, use the HS timing settings as given in the table below.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Debo
unce
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_
1_0
- I2C
- DataRa
te
- I2C_CL
K_SRC
- I2C_CLK_SRC
- Frequency (in MHz)
- I2C_CLK_DI
- VISOR+1
- I2C_CLK_DIVISO
R_HSMODE+1
- I2C_I2C_HS_I
- NTERFACE_TI
- MING_0_0
- I2C
- SpeedMo
de (HS_TSU_
- STA+1)
(HS_THD_
- STA+1)
(HS_TSU_
- STO+1)
(HS_T
- HIGH
+1) (HS_T
- LOW+
1)
- HS
- PLLP_OU
- T0
(2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (8+1) = (3+1) = (9+1) = 10 (9+1) = 10 (9+1) = 10 3.48MHz
- I2C Timing register settings with I2C_CLK_SRC: CLK_M
Note: HS mode is not possible with CLK_M frequency.
- Debou
nce
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C
- DataRat
e
- I2C_I2C_INTE
- RFACE_TIMIN
G_0_0
- I2C_CLK_DIV
- ISOR+1
- I2C_CLK_DIVI
- SOR
_STD_FAST_
- MODE+1
- I2C_CLK
_SRC
- I2C_CLK_SR
C
- Frequency
(in MHz)
- I2C
- SpeedMo
de (TLO W+1) (THIG H+1) (TSU_ST A+1) (THD_ST A+1) (TSU_ST O+1) (TBUF +1)
- FM+
- CLK_M
19.2 (0+1) = 1 (5+1) = 6 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 800kHz
- FM
- CLK_M
19.2 (0+1) = 1 (12+1) = 13 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = ~370kHz
- SM
- CLK_M
19.2 (0+1) = 1 (19+1)= 20 (4+1) = (4+1) = (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 96kHz De-bounce impacts the I2C interface data rate in the following way.

- I2C Programming Guidelines

- I2C Programming Guidelines
Example: CLK_SOURCE = 408 MHz and Source Div = 5:
- I2C_Clock frequency = 408 / 5 = 81.6 MHz, thus I2C clock period = 12.25 ns
- Chip internal delay = 10 ns, Load_Delay = 55 ns, De-bounce = 2, Synchronizer Delay = ~3
- Round_Trip_Delay = (10 ns + 55 ns + 9 * 12.25 ns) = ~175.25 ns
- FM+ speed case: STD_FM_Div = 10
- STD_FM_Div * I2C_Clk_Period = 10 * 12.255 ns = 122.55 ns
- Round_Trip_Delay in I2C_Div cycles = Round_Trip_Delay/(STD_FM_Div * I2C_Clk_Period) = 1
(Rounded down)
- So, I2C SCL rate = 408 MHz / (5 * (8+1) * 10) = 906 kHz
If de-bounce is disabled, the Round_Trip_delay (in I2C_Div cycles) becomes less than 1.
- So, I2C SCL rate = 408 MHz / (5 * 8 * 10) = 1002 kHz = 1.02 MHz
##### 10.11.3.1.2 I2C Command ADDR Registers (used in Normal Mode Only)
- These registers, I2C_CMD_ADDR0 and I2C_CMD_ADDR1, contain the address of the slave with
which a transaction is intended. The I2C Master Controller can be programmed to transact with both 7-bit and 10-bit addressed slaves. Bit [0] of the I2C_CNFG register determines the size of the slave address to be transacted. If a 7-bit or a 10-bit slave address is chosen, the respective address is taken from I2C_CMD_ADDR0 [9:0], and the Read/Write command is taken from bits 6 and 7 of the I2C_CNFG Register. In a 2-Slave configuration, the slave 1 address (7-bit or 10-bit) is taken from I2C_CMD_ADDR0 [9:0] and Slave 2 address (7-bit or 10-bit) from I2C_CMD_ADDR1 [9:0]. The transfer length is the same in 2-slave operation and is taken from the I2C_CNFG [LENGTH] bit field. In 2-slave operation, the maximum possible transfer size is 4 bytes.
##### 10.11.3.1.3 I2C Data Registers (used in Normal Mode Only)
There are two data registers, I2C_CMD_DATA1 and I2C_CMD_DATA2, each of 32 bit length, which are to be loaded with the data to be transmitted or received as an I2C Master. When being used as I2C slave, the controller uses a separate byte-wide register to store the data to be transmitted or received (I2C_SL_RCVD register).

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.4 I2C Configuration Register
This register is to be configured with the following data:
- Number of bytes to be transmitted or received
- Select for 7-bit or 10-bit slave address
- Program to send a Start Byte
- Single or two slave operations
- Support of NOACK from an external peripheral
The I2C_CNGF [9] bit is used to issue a "Begin-Transaction" command to the I2C Master Controller. This bit is auto cleared by the hardware. The firmware should first configure all the other registers and bits [8:0] of the I2C_CNFG register before the I2C_CNFG [9] bit is programmed to one.
##### 10.11.3.1.5 I2C Configuration Load Register
This CONFIG load register transfers the software programmed configuration in the I2C registers to hardware internal registers used in the logic. It has three bit fields: 1. 2. 3.
- MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD for regular master and Bus Clear master logic
- SLV_CONFIG_LOAD for slave controller logic
TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD for SMBUS timeout logic. Software must set these fields to 1 for the actual register configuration to take effect. Thus software is programming only shadow registers through regular configuration. When these load_config bit fields are set to 1, it causes the regular/shadow registers configuration to be transferred to the hardware internal active registers. So software has to set these bit fields at the end of all regular register configurations. However, in normal or non-packet mode, these bit fields should be set to 1 before the I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] bit is set to 1. The I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] bit triggers a transfer on the I2C bus and should be programmed at the end of the entire configuration. These config_load bits are hardware auto-clear bits. Hardware clears these bit fields once the register configuration is moved to hardware internal active registers. Software must wait until these bits are auto-cleared before continuing with further programming. The wait time is not more than 100 ns for apb_clk = 100 MHz and i2c_clk = 100 MHz. When apb_clk = 20 MHz and i2c_clk = 20 MHz, it is not more than 500 ns time. Below are the register bit fields associated with each CONFIG_LOAD bit. MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD needs to be set for the following registers:
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0
- I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0
- I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0
- I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0
- I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
SLV_CONFIG_LOAD covers the following registers:
- I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0
- I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0
- I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[RST_SL_ON_TIMEOUT]
- I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0
TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD covers the following register bit fields:
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TIMEOUT]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_SEXT]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_MEXT]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TIMEOUT_EN]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_SEXT_EN]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_MEXT_EN]
##### 10.11.3.1.6 I2C Controller Status Register
This register (I2C_STATUS) gives the status of the I2C Master operation. It includes the busy status of the I2C controller and the completion status of the command executed.
##### 10.11.3.1.7 I2C Interface Timing Registers
These registers provide flexibility to tune the I2C interface bus timing, if needed. Separate bit fields are provided for non-HS (STD/FM/FM+) and HS modes timing.
##### 10.11.3.1.8 I2C Master Controller Soft Reset Register
This register has a SOFT_RESET bit field that provides the option to reset the master controller without losing the register configuration. This does not impact the slave controller. If the software finds a requirement to reset the master controller alone, this bit field is useful. Master and slave controllers can be used simultaneously in an application. Writing 1 to
- I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] resets all internal states of the master logic,

- I2C Programming Guidelines
including FIFOs. Clear this bit to 0 for normal operation. For I2C applications where Timeout logic is not used, the software needs to wait for 2 µs after assertion and de-assertion of this soft reset. For SMBus applications, wait for 5 ms after assertion and deassertion of soft reset.
##### 10.11.3.1.9 I2C Slave ADDR Registers
Two slave ADDR registers are used to configure the address of the internal slave, I2C_SL_ADDR1 and I2C_SL_ADDR2. The bit [0] of I2C_SL_ADDR2 determines the address-size of the internal slave. When this bit is programmed to 0, the 7-bit slave address is taken from I2C_SL_ADDR1 [6:0]. When this bit is programmed to 1, the most significant two bits of the 10-bit slave address are taken from I2C_SL_ADDR2[2:1] and the least significant bits are taken from I2C_SL_ADDR1[7:0].
##### 10.11.3.1.10 I2C Controller Slave Status Register
This register (I2C_SL_STATUS) contains the status of an I2C slave. It has the following status bits:
- Bit 1: Direction of transfer
- Bit 2: New Transaction Received
- Bit 3: Receive Interrupt
Bit 4: END_TRANS; this bit is set when an I2C transfer is complete (as indicated by either a STOP or NoACK from master). Bit 5: RST_SL; the byte received following the receipt of general call address is 0x06. Therefore programmable part of the slave address needs to be reset and reprogrammed. Bit 6: REPROG_SL; the byte received following the receipt of general call address is 0x04. Therefore reprogram the programmable part of the slave address.
- Bit 7: HW_MSTR_INT; when set this bit indicates that master address has been transmitted
after general call address. Bits [14:8]: Hardware master address; the contents of this field are meaningful only when bit 7 (HW_MSTR_INT) is set. Note that the I2C controller generates an interrupt at the completion of each data byte received. In response to this interrupt, firmware must read the I2C_SL_STATUS register to confirm the cause of the interrupt and the direction of data transfer. If the interrupt is due to a data byte received (R/ W=0), firmware must read the data register and write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear the interrupt and get the SCL line released. If the interrupt is due to read operation (R/W=1), data should be written to I2C_SL_RCVD in order to release the SCL line from clock stretching. The I2C controller delays the release of the ACK handshake on the I2C bus until the SL.IRQ bit has been cleared by the firmware. The software has to write 1 to clear SL_STATUS register bits. I2C_SL_STATUS needs to be either polled or the I2C interrupt must be enabled for transfers to occur in slave mode.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
If the device slave is receiving data: I2C_SL_STATUS.SL_IRQ bit set indicates that byte has been received. Check the transfer direction from the RNW field. Read data byte from I2C_SL_RCVD register. Write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear SL_IRQ which causes the bus to be released. SL_IRQ is set again upon reception of next byte. If the device slave is transmitting data: I2C_SL_STATUS.SL_IRQ bit set indicates that address has been received. Check the transfer direction from the RNW field. Write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear SL_IRQ. Write data byte to I2C_SL_RCVD register. This write causes the bus to be released.
- SL_IRQ is set again upon transfer of the byte. Another byte can be written to continue the
operation. The slave stretches the SCL line in the following cases: Pending Interrupts from I2C_SL_STATUS register after a byte received in write or a data byte needs to be sent in read operation. The software has to clear them by writing 1 to the reg bit fields, which releases the SCL line. TX-FIFO is empty and no data is available to send to the master during a read operation. The software to write data to TX-FIFO to get the SCL line released. RX-FIFO is full and no room remains in the FIFO to receive any more data from the master. The software to read the RX-FIFO to allow the SCL line released. During address cycle, the SCL stretch occurs after the ACK bit. The stretch time includes the interrupt clear time and the SL_DELAY_COUNT. If it is a read operation, the clock stretch is extended until the data byte is written to the I2C_SL_RCVD register.
- During data phase, the SCL stretch occurs before and after the ACK bit. The stretch before
- ACK is for a duration of SL_DELAY_COUNT and the stretch time after the ACK bit is the
interrupt clear time plus the SL_DELAY_COUNT period. If it is a read operation, the clock stretch is extended until the data byte is written to the I2C_SL_RCVD register.
##### 10.11.3.1.11 Clock Gating Over Ride Enable Register
The second level clock gating improves power saving (SLCG is implemented for both master and slave operations). Clock gating is enabled by default. For any reason, if clock gating needs to be disabled, it can be done through a programmable I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE register. Separate bit fields are provided for the master, bus clear master, and slave controllers.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.12 Interrupt Generation in Non-Packet (Normal) Mode
In non-packet mode, the I2C controller generates interrupts upon the completion of transmission or reception of the specified number of bytes. A Master interrupt is generated when the number of bytes of the transaction, as programmed in the LENGTH field of the I2C_CNFG register, is complete. A Slave-interrupt is generated at the transmission/reception of each byte of data including address byte by the internal slave. Slave interrupts are to be cleared by the firmware as mentioned above.
#### 10.11.3.2 Programming Guidelines for Master in Normal Mode
##### 10.11.3.2.1 Master-Transmit Programming Model
This programming example is for 7-byte writes from master to an external slave:
- Program the I2C_CLK_DIVISOR register to get the required data rate based on I2C
- CLK_SOURCE register programming in CAR module
- Write the slave address in I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register based on 7-bit/10-bit addressing mode
- Write the first 4 bytes data in I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Write the remaining 3 bytes in I2C_CMD_DATA2 register
- Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value
- Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing based on slave device address width
Program I2C_CNFG [LENGTH]. This bit field works in (n+1) fashion so for a 7 byte transfer, 6 needs to be programmed in the LENGTH bit field
- Set I2C_CNFG [SLV2] = 0 as this is one is slave access
- Set CMD1 = 0 for write operation
- Set NOACK to 0 or 1 based on Slave type
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG [SEND] to 1 to begin a write transaction on the interface
- Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or
I2C_STATUS[BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS [CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the
slave for any of the bytes transferred.
##### 10.11.3.2.2 Master-Receive Programming Model
The read operation is divided into two steps based on random read or immediate read after a write. In a typical random read:

- I2C Programming Guidelines
1.
- Write command: Send slave register/memory index first from which the data needs to be
read
- Send read command to read the data
2. The above operation can be done in two separate configurations or in a single configuration using
- Repeated Start in 2-slave config
1.
- Write: Sending slave’s 1-byte register index first
- Write the slave address in I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register based on 7-bit /10-bit addressing
mode
- Write the slave’s internal register index (from which the data has to be read) in
- I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value
- Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing based on slave device address width
- Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 0 for a 1-byte register index transfer
- Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 0
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 0 for write operation
- Set I2C_CNFG[NOACK] to 0 or 1 based on Slave type
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface
Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS[CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from
the slave 2.
- Read: Send read command
- Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 6 for 7-bytes read
- Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 0 as this is one slave access
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 1 for read operation
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface
Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS[CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from
the slave
- Read the first 4 bytes data in the I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Read the remaining 3 bytes in the I2C_CMD_DATA2 register
Read using repeated-start in 2-slave mode. Note that maximum transfer size possible in 2-slave mode is 4 bytes.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write the slave address in the I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register with the LSB bit set to “0”
- Write the slave address in the I2C_CMD_ADDR1 register with the LSB bit set to “1”
- Write the slave’s internal register index byte (from which the data has to be read) in
- I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value as needed
- Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing
- Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 0 for 1 byte transfer
- Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 1
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 0 for write operation
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD2] = 1 for read operation
- Set I2C_CNFG[NOACK] to 0 or 1 based on the Slave type
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface
Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS [CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the
slave
- Read data from the I2C_CMD_DATA2 register
#### 10.11.3.3 Programming Guidelines for Packet-Based Interface
##### 10.11.3.3.1 Packet-Based Interface Registers
The following registers are used for a packet-based interface:
- I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0
- I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0
- I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0
- I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0
- I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0
- I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0
- I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0
- I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0
All other registers/fields have no meaning in packet mode and should be used only in normal mode.
##### 10.11.3.3.2 Packet Header and Payload Programming
Software should post the packets to the I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO register. It writes the packet header followed by the payload to the I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO register. The header size can vary from three to four words. For I2C, the size is a three-word header for request packets and four words for response packets. The first two words of the header contain a generic header. The third word of the packet (and fourth as well for response packets) contains I2C transaction-specific information. The payload contains the actual data to be written to the slave. In case of read operations, payload is nil, and hence, the packet contains only a header.
##### 10.11.3.3.3 Reading from the I2C_RX_FIFO
The data received from the I2C bus is pushed into the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register. In PIO mode, a request interrupt is generated when the FIFO attention level is reached, and the corresponding interrupt enable bit is set. Software then reads the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register to get the data. In DMA mode, a request is asserted to DMA after the attention level is reached.
##### 10.11.3.3.4 REPEAT_START/STOP Bit in the Protocol Specific Header
This field indicates whether or not to put a stop or repeated-start condition after the current transaction. By default, this bit is zero and a stop condition is put on the bus. If this bit is set to 1, a repeat start is put on the bus before proceeding with the next packet. The REPEAT_START/STOP bit can be used for combining read operations and write operations within a single transaction with a repeat start, or to do transfers beyond the 64 Kbyte limit. This bit is present in the protocol- specific header.
##### 10.11.3.3.5 ContinueXfer Bit in the Protocol Specific Header
The I2C controller supports transfer sizes beyond 64 Kbytes without a repeat start condition, again by combining multiple packets. This is in addition to the ability to use a repeat start condition to do continuous transfers over 64 Kbyte limit. With the ContinueXfer field, the current transfer can continue without a stop or a repeat start condition.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.6 Transfers with START Byte
Transfers needing a longer start procedure can use the START Byte feature. In this mode, START Byte (8'b00000001) is transmitted after START condition and a dummy acknowledge (NACK) would be received. The actual transfer starts with a Repeated START condition then. For START byte transfers, set SEND_START_BYTE to 1 in the protocol specific header of the packet.
##### 10.11.3.3.7 Transfers with Slaves Having No-ACK Capability
There could be slave devices which do not generate ACK upon reception of a byte. The I2C Master has the capability to do the transfers with these devices too. This would be done by setting CONTINUE_ON_NACK bit field of the protocol specific header to 1. In this case, the I2C master ignores the NACK bit and continues the transfers.
##### 10.11.3.3.8 HS_MODE Transfers
HS_MODE transfers are supported in packet mode only. For HS transfers, write HS master code byte in HS_MASTER_ADDR field of the protocol specific header and set HS_MODE bit to 1. If HS_MODE bit is programmed to 0, all the transfers would be done in Non-HS modes (Standard/Fm/
- Fm+) based on the I2C clocks frequency programming. In HS mode, Master code byte
is transmitted in (Standard/Fm/Fm+) speed mode and the data transfers would happen in HS mode. I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 and I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 registers would be used for HS timing generation on the I2C bus.
##### 10.11.3.3.9 Master FIFO Control
- In DMA mode, I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that
need to be empty in I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 for the DMA trigger to be asserted.
- I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be full in
I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 for the DMA trigger to be asserted.
- In PIO mode, the INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] is be set if the
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 empty count is more than the value programmed in TX_FIFO_TRIG.
- Similarly INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[RFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 full
count is more than the value programmed in RX_FIFO_TRIG. The CPU is interrupted if the status bits are set and their corresponding INT_EN bit is set in the Interrupt Mask Register. The depth of the TX and RX FIFOs is 128 words.
- For Transmit and Receive Data requests in DMA or PIO mode, the
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] bit needs to be set to 1 along with the FIFO_TRIG level
settings. Otherwise, requests are not generated.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
This register has separate FLUSH control bits for the Master controller TX_FIFO and RX_FIFO. Writing 1 to these bits initiates the FIFO flush operation. They are auto-cleared to 0 once the flush operation is complete.
##### 10.11.3.3.10 Master FIFO Status
This register indicates the number of entries that are empty in the Master controller TX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0[TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT]) and the number of entries that are full in the RX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0[RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT]).
##### 10.11.3.3.11 Slave FIFO Control
I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be empty in I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 for the data transmit request to be asserted.
- I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be full in
I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 for the received data request to be asserted.
- In PIO mode, INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[SLV_TFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if the
- I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 empty count is more than the value programmed in
- TX_FIFO_TRIG. Similarly INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER [SLV_RFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if
- I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 full count is more than the value programmed in RX_FIFO_TRIG. CPU is
interrupted if status bits are set and their corresponding INT_EN is set in the Interrupt Mask Register. The depth of Tx and Rx FIFOs is 128 words.
- For Transmit and Receive Data requests in FIFO mode, I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] bit
needs to be set to 1 along with FIFO_TRIG level settings. Otherwise, requests are not generated. This register has separate FLUSH control bits for the Slave controller TX_FIFO and RX_FIFO. Write 1 to these bits initiates the FIFO flush operation. They are auto-cleared to 0 once the flush operation is complete.
##### 10.11.3.3.12 Slave FIFO Status
This register indicates the number of entries that are empty in the Slave controller TX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_SLV_FIFO_STATUS_0[TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT]) and the number of entries that are full in the RX_FIFO (bit field:I2C_SLV_FIFO_STATUS_0[RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT]).
##### 10.11.3.3.13 Interrupt Status Register
This register (INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER) gives the status of the I2C Master in Packet Mode operation and also the status of Slave controller in FIFO mode and SMBUS timeout status. The register bits are set to 1 when the corresponding event happens. The bit fields are sticky. Once set to 1, they stay 1. Write 1 to clear them to 0. However, TFIFO_DATA_REQ and RFIFO_DATA_REQ fields are exceptions to this as they depend on the FIFO trigger levels and cannot be cleared.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.14 Interrupt Mask Register
This register (I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0) contains the interrupt enable bits for the status bits given in INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. A separate interrupt enable bit is available for each bit field of INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. Setting an INT_EN bit in this register enables signaling an interrupt to the system when corresponding status bit is set in the INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. Clearing it will mask the interrupt.
##### 10.11.3.3.15 Interrupt Source Register
- This read-only register (I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER) returns the AND of Interrupt Mask
and Interrupt Status Registers bit fields. A bit field in this register would be set if the corresponding bit fields in I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 and INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER are set to 1. Example:
- I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER[ARB_LOST] = AND(I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER
[ARB_LOST_INT_EN], INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER [ARB_LOST])
##### 10.11.3.3.16 Packet Transfer Status
In addition to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0, packet transfer status can be obtained from
- I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 and I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 registers as
well with additional information of the packet. Software can read this register to know which packet is currently being transferred, how many bytes are transferred in the on-going packet or packet is successfully transferred or any Bus lost or NACK happened during the transfer. TRANSFER_PKT_ID gives the ID of on-going packet or last transmitted packet ID.
- TRANSFER_BYTENUM in the I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 register gives the
information about the number of bytes that have been transferred so far in the current packet. Once the packet transfer is done, this field becomes zero.
- TRANSFER_COMPLETE field would be set when a packet (with STOP=1) is successfully
transferred. ARB_LOST shows the loss of the bus. NOACK_FOR_ADDR for the NOACK received for Address byte. NOACK_FOR_DATA for the NOACK received for data byte.
- CONTROLLER_BUSY shows PACKET_MODE_EN bit status. It is 1 as long as packet mode is
enabled.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.17 Error Handling
In case of an error (e.g., NOACK or loss of arbitration, TX_FIFO overflow or RX_FIFO underflow, the following steps describe the sequence that need to be followed before proceeding with any further transactions. When an error occurs, the I2C Master controller stops further packet transfers and sets the corresponding status bits in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER for the event (ARB_LOST/ NOACK/TFIFO_OVF/ RFIFO_UNF) occurred.
- PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS register is updated with the current error packet ID, at which the
error is occurred.
- Handling TFIFO_OVF and RFIFO_UNF events
- TFIFO_OVF or RFIFO_UNF can potentially lead to I2C controller hang as there would be
data drop due to FIFO overflow or packets are combined with Repeated Start in multi- packet transfers.
- TX_FIFO overflow or Rx underflow happens when software writes to an already full
TX_FIFO or reading an empty RX_FIFO, software must avoid these conditions. - - The controller reset (from CAR) is required to recover from a I2C-bus hang; reset results in the Master controller losing the Bus Busy status information (this is a problem in multi- master mode). -
- Handling ARB_LOST and NOACK events
If DMA is used for the transfers, disable the DMA and wait until DMA becomes idle. -
- Clear the I2C FIFOs entries using FIFO FLUSH bits
-
- Clear the ARB_LOST and NOACK bits in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_Register
-
- After completing the above, the I2C controller is ready for the transfers again
-
- Restart the DMA if used
- Start new transfer following regular programming guidelines
- -
##### 10.11.3.3.18 Slave ACK WithHold Feature in FIFO Mode
In FIFO mode, slave holds the I2C bus by pulling SCL line low (clock stretching) after sending the
- ACK for the very last byte of transfer. Register bit fields ACK_LAST_BYTE and
ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID fields are used for this purpose. When Slave receives its Rx Buffer full data, it holds the I2C bus on the very last byte of the transfer. Software can ACK or NACK the transfer by setting the ACK_LAST_BYTE bit field to the required value. It has to set ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID bit field next to say that ACK_LAST_BYTE bit field has been updated. Slave sends the ACK/NACK to the interface for the next byte accordingly. Until that time, Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching. In SMBUS applications, Host (Software) is responsible for providing this indication to I2C slave in a timely fashion before timeouts happen.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.19 Slave Usage in FIFO Mode
- Slave data transfers can be done using FIFO. Data can be transmitted and received through
- I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 and I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 registers respectively. For this,
FIFO_XFER_EN bit in I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 register needs to be set. In FIFO-XFER mode, slave by default works in one byte mode, i.e., initially when a single byte is received, I2C bus is held and SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED interrupt is generated. Software should indicate whether to ACK or not to the next byte in the transfer by writing into ACK_LAST_BYTE field of I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 register. Note that ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID field also needs to be set to indicate to hardware that ACK_LAST_BYTE is being updated. When software receives interrupt due to SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED, it can check ACK_WITHHELD of I2C_I2C_SLV_PACKET_STATUS_0 register to see if slave is withholding the ACK for the last byte.
- Software can update the buffer size from default to any number by programming
I2C_SLV_PAYLOAD_0[BUFFER_SIZE].
#### 10.11.3.4 Master in Packet Mode Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.4.1 Programming Model for Master-Transmit, Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C-Bus Speed
Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers
Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing.
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b
- Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for Data Requests in PIO Mode
Below settings are for example only. Program this bit field to the required trigger levels.
- Write I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3 (0x3 = System gets request from the
I2C controller when at least four words are empty in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0).
- Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE
(for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2 Example only, program as required. Refer to
the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0
- Activate the Configuration
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware
- Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] =
- ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE
This completes the configuration. Next step is posting the packets to the I2C controller to initiate data transfers on the I2C-bus.
- Packets Posting Based on TFIFO Data Requests
There could be one packet or more than one packet that need to be transferred from I2C. 1.
- One packet transfer size(in words) = packet_header (in words) +payload_size (in words)
Total transfer size = packet1_transfer_size + packet2_transfer_size +……. +packetN_transfer_size 2. 3.
- When the TX_FIFO attention level is reached, I2C sets the
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] bit and sends an interrupt to
system if the interrupt is enabled with
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE setting
4.
- Transmit Data Request Interrupt Handling
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- For master transmit data requests,
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] would be set to 1.
- Disable the interrupt by writing
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = DISABLE
- Write the packet words to I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0. The total words size that would be
written for every TFIFO_DATA_REQ request should be less than or equal to the FIFO trigger level. Otherwise, it causes the TX_FIFO to overflow.
- Decrement the total transfer size with the number of words written to the FIFO in the
previous step (total_transfer_size = total_transfer_size - #words written to TX_FIFO). And check if the new transfer size is zero. If not zero, enable interrupt for TFIFO_DATA_REQ with 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE and wait for the
new interrupt. The above steps continue until all the packets are posted to the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0. Packet parsing: once a packet is available in the TX_FIFO, I2C parses it and starts doing transfers on the I2C bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers.
- Successful Transfers
- Once a packet is transmitted successfully by the I2C Master,
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the
status. And if the packet header is configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is also set.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 1. 2.
- Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. If the packet was configured to have STOP bit,
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be
set.
- Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE]
and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 1. 2. 3.
- Transfers Completion
- Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from
memory.
- Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or
- ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE alerts (if packets have only STOP) to track how many
packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C signals to the system. 1. 2.
- Unsuccessful Transfers
A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. Transfer could be unsuccessful due to I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is
already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK
for address or data byte transfer of a transaction.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full. 1. 2. 3.
- When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers
and flushes the data from the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 4. 5.
- Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF). In all these cases, an I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers. 2. Reset the I2C controller. 3. 4. Redo the controller configuration and go for the transfers. Note: I2C issues the DATA requests to the system based on FIFO trigger levels settings and the
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] setting. PACKET_MODE_EN bit needs to be set to 1 for
requests generation.
##### 10.11.3.4.2 Programming Model for Master-Transmit, DMA Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
1.
- Pinmux programming
2.
- I2C controller reset release
3.
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C Bus Speed
Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers
Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing.
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b
- Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for DMA Requests
Below settings are for example only. Program this bit field to the required trigger levels.
- Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3
(0x3 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least four words are empty in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register).
- Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] =
- ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for
tracking packet transfers completion status
- Post I2C Packets (Headers and Data) to the Memory for the Write Transfers
Refer to the I/O Packet Format section for packet structure. Program RESP_PKT_ENABLE = 0 in the packet header.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Configure DMA for I2C Transfers
- DMA can be one of GPCDMA/BPMPDMA/AONDMA/SCEDMA. Check which DMA needs to be used
based on the I2C-bus. Note the following when configuring DMA for I2C transfers: Set DMA source pointer to the memory location where the I2C packets are stored. 1. Set DMA destination pointer to I2C instance base address + I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO offset. 2. 3. 4. 5. DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings. Configure DMA to Flow control mode.
- DMA Transfer size should match the total packets size in words. For example, three Write
packets. First packet = 3 bytes transfer, second packet = 8 bytes transfer and third packet = 11 bytes transfer. Total size = 4+5+6=15 words.
- Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE
(for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2. Example only, program as required. Refer to
the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0
- Activate the Configuration
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and
I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
With this, it initiates the write transfers from the I2C master to the bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers.
- Successful Transfers
- Once a packet is transmitted successfully by the I2C Master,
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the
status. And if the packet header configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit will also be set.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system
1. 2.
- Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. If the packet was configured to have STOP bit,
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be
set.
- Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE]
and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 2. 3.
- Transfers Completion
- Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from
memory.
- Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or
- ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE alerts (if packets have only STOP) to track how many
packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C signals to the system. 1. 2.
- Unsuccessful Transfers
A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. The transfer could be unsuccessful due to I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is
already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. 1.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
2.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK
for address or data byte transfer of a transaction.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full. 3.
- When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers
and flushes the data from the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 4. 5.
- Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF) In all these cases, an I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers 2.
- Assert I2C controller reset
3. 4.
- Disable DMA
- Release I2C controller reset
5. Redo the I2C configuration, including DMA, and go for the transfers. 6. Notes:
- I2C issues the requests to DMA based on FIFO trigger levels settings and the
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] setting. PACKET_MODE_EN bit needs to be set to 1 for
requests generation.
- Packet transfer status is also available in I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 and
- I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 registers. Software can read these registers to
know which packet is currently being transferred (TRANSFER_PKT_ID), how many bytes are transferred in the on-going packet (TRANSFER_BYTENUM) or if the previous packet with
- STOP setting is successfully transferred (TRANSFER_COMPLETE and TRANSFER_PKT_ID) or
any ARB_LOST/NACK event happened (ARB_LOST, NOACK_FOR_ADDR/NOACK_FOR_DATA). 1. 2.
##### 10.11.3.4.3 Programming Model for Master-Receive, DMA Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing an I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C Bus Speed
Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers
Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing.
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b
- Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for DMA Requests
Below settings are for example only. Program the bit fields to the required trigger levels.
- Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x1
- Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3
(0x1 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least two words are empty in in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0). (0x3 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least four words are full in the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register).
- Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[RFIFO_UNF_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] =
ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status.
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for
tracking packet transfers completion status.
- Prepare and Save I2C Packets in the Memory for the Read Transfers
Refer to the I/O Packet Format section for packet structure. Program RESP_PKT_ENABLE = 0 in the packet header.
- Configure DMA for I2C Transfers
- DMA can be one of GPCDMA/BPMPDMA/AONDMA/SCEDMA. Check which DMA needs to be used
based on the I2C bus, and for complete DMA programming model, refer to the corresponding DMA programming guidelines document. It is out of scope for this document. Note the following when configuring DMA for I2C transfers: For packets transfer from memory to the I2C controller, if DMA CH0 is used:
- Set DMA CH0 source pointer to the memory location where the I2C packets are stored
- Set DMA CH0 destination pointer to I2C instance base-address + I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO
offset
- DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings
- Configure DMA to Flow control mode
DMA CH0 transfer size should match the total packets size in words. Since it is read packets only, only packet headers would be there. For example, 3 Read packets. Total size = 3+3+3= 9 words To transfer the received-data from the I2C controller to memory, if DMA CH1 is used:
- Set DMA CH1 source pointer to I2C instance base address + I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 offset
- Set DMA CH1 destination pointer to the memory location where the I2C data needs to be
saved.
- DMA CH1 burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings
- Configure DMA to Flow control mode
- DMA Transfer size should match the total words that need to be read from
I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0.
- Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE
(for multi-master bus)

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0
Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2. Example only, program as required.
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0
- Activate the Configuration
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware
With this, it will initiate the read transfers by the I2C master on the bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers.
- Successful Transfers
- Once a packet transfer is successfully done by the I2C Master,
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the
status. If the packet header configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit will also be set.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 1. 2.
- Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. And if the packet was configured to have STOP bit,
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be
set. 2.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE]
and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 3.
- Transfers Completion
- Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from
memory.
- Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or
- ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have only STOP) alerts to track how many
packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C sends to the system. 1. 2.
- Check DMA status if it read all the data bytes from the I2C controller and saved it to the
memory. 3.
- Unsuccessful Transfers
A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. The transfer could be unsuccessful due to the I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors or I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 Underflow errors.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is
already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK
for address or data byte transfer of a transaction.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[RFIFO_UNF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU reads
I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 even it is empty. 1. 2. 3. 4.
- When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers
and flushes the data from the FIFOs.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 5. 6.
- Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF/ RFIFO_UNF) 1.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
In all these cases, the I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers 2.
- Assert I2C controller reset
3. 4.
- Disable DMA
- Release I2C controller reset
5. Redo the I2C configuration, including DMA, and go for the transfers. 6.
#### 10.11.3.5 Programming Guidelines for Slave in Byte Mode
##### 10.11.3.5.1 Programming Model for Slave-Receive in 7-bit Addressing Mode
(Transfer Direction not Changed), Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0,SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a Write transaction from the I2C Master device.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Slave Response to Address Phase of the Write Transaction
- When Slave receives address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed
address, it does the following. 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ
- Saves the received address byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. 3. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. Each bit field signifies an event occurrence. If a bit field is set to 1, it means, the current interrupt is because of the relevant event to this bit.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE would be set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt and release the SCL line allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction. 4. 5. 6. 7.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction
When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4.
- Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit would be set to 1.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
3. 4.
- Read the data byte from I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register
To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting.
- Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] =
- ENABLE
Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction 5.
- Slave Response to STOP Condition of the Write Transaction
If the Master sends a STOP condition next, the Slave does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
- STOP condition is received
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Stop Condition is Received
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the STOP condition case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
- I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3. Notes: 1.
- If the Master terminates the transaction while the Slave controller is ready to accept the
data, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR] bit is set at the end of the transaction when STOP condition is received. This bit can be cleared by writing 1 to it or it can be ignored. If the Slave controller sends NACK to any of the bytes during the write transfer, Master will terminate the transaction after seeing NACK bit. In this case, No status bits (END_TRANS,
- SL_IRQ or SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR) would be set when STOP condition is received. No interrupts
either. 2.
##### 10.11.3.5.2 Programming Model for Slave-Transmit in 7-bit Addressing Mode
(Transfer Direction not Changed), Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a Read transaction from the I2C Master device.
- Slave Response to Address Phase of Read Transaction
When the Slave receives an address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ is set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt. Write Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. Master can read this byte now. 3. 4. 5.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction
If Master ACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to continue the read operation further. The Slave controller does the following in this case: 1. 2. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3.
- Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer.
- Slave Response to End of the Read Transaction
If Master NACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to end the transaction. The Slave controller does the following then: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
the end of current transaction.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
- I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
##### 10.11.3.5.3 Programming Model for Slave-Receive-Transmit (Transfer Direction
- Changed from Receive-to-Transmit with RepeatedStart) in 7-bit
- Addressing Mode, Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a transaction from the I2C Master device.
- Slave Response to Address Phase of Write Transaction
When the Slave receives address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. 3. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. Each bit field signifies an event occurrence. If a bit field is set to 1, it means, the current interrupt is because of the relevant event to this bit.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
4.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE would be set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction. 5. 6. 7.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction
When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4.
- Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Read the data byte from the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting.
- Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] =
- ENABLE
Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction. 5.
- Slave Response to Write-to-Read Transfer Direction Change with RepeatedStart Condition
When the Master sends a RepeatedStart condition and changes the transfer direction from write to read, the Slave controller does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
the new transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the Master. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions, it would be
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt.
- This will set I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD] bit to 1 now, and an interrupt
is generated. Clear the interrupt by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD] bit field.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_TX_BUFFER_REQ] bit is set now. This can be
ignored. Write Data byte to I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. The Master can read the byte now. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction
If Master ACKs previous byte of the read transfer, it means the Master wants to continue the read operation further. The Slave controller does the following in this case: 1. 2. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3.
- Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer.
- Slave Response to End of the Read Transaction
If Master NACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to end the transaction. The Slave controller does the following then: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
the end of current transaction.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
2.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled.
- Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
##### 10.11.3.5.4 Programming Model for Slave-Transmit-Receive (transfer direction
changed from Transmit-to-Receive with RepeatedStart) in 7-bit
- Addressing Mode, Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED]
- Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a transaction from the I2C Master device.
- Slave Response to Address Phase of Read Transaction
When the Slave receives an address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following:

- I2C Programming Guidelines
1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1 = READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt enable bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ is set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt. Write Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. The Master can read this byte now. 3. 4. 5.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction
If Master ACKs previous byte transfer, it means, Master wants to continue the read operation further. Slave controller does the following in this case. 1. 2. Sets the I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3.
- Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case
1. 2. 3. 4. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer.
- Slave Response to Read-to-Write Transfer Direction Change with RepeatedStart Condition
When Master wants to send RepeatedStart condition to change the transfer direction from read to write, it will NACK the last byte of the read transfer before sending Repeated condition.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
The Slave does the following when this happens: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
the end of read transaction.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
- When New Transaction (READ) started with RepeatedStart, The Slave does the following after
receiving the address byte of the new transaction: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1 = READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE is set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction 3. 4.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction
When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set.

- I2C Registers
The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4.
- Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Read the data byte from the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting.
- Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] =
ENABLE. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction. 5.
- Slave Response to STOP Condition of the Write Transaction
If the Master sends STOP condition next, the Slave does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
STOP condition is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Stop Condition is Received
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the STOP condition case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3. Notes: 1. If the Master terminates the transaction while the Slave controller is ready to accept the data during write transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR] bit is set at the end of the transaction when STOP condition is received. This bit can be cleared by writing 1 to it or it can be ignored. If the Slave controller sends NACK to any of the bytes during the write transfer, the Master will terminate the transaction after seeing the NACK bit. In this case, no status bits (END_TRANS, SL_IRQ or SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR) would be set when STOP condition is received. No interrupts either. 2.}(@{Key=10.11.3; Title=I2C Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 10.11.3.1 I2C Frequency Divisor Register
The FREQUENCY DIVISOR register (CLK_SOURCE_I2C register) must be programmed as a function of the CLK_SOURCE selected for I2C as follows:
- Note
In the below expressions, TLOW is used to represent I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0[TLOW]. Similarly
- THIGH: I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0[THIGH]
- HS_TLOW: I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0[HS_TLOW]
- HS_THIGH: I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0[HS_THIGH]
The clock enable (e.g., CLK_ENB_I2C1 bit for I2C1 instance) must also be set before any write and read access to the I2C registers.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.1 Example Settings for Various I2C Speeds
SM/FM/FM+ Speed Mode settings:
- Debou
nce
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C
- DataRat
e
- I2C_I2C_INTE
- RFACE_TIMIN
G_0_0
- I2C_CLK_DIV
- ISOR+1
- I2C_CLK_DIVI
- SOR
_STD_FAST_
- MODE+1
- I2C_CLK
_SRC
- I2C_CLK_SR
C
- Frequency
(in MHz)
- I2C
- SpeedMod
e (TLO W+1) (THIG H+1) (TSU_ST A+1) (THD_ST A+1) (TSU_ST O+1) (TBUF +1)
- FM+
- PLLP_OUT
(2+1) = 3 (36+1) = 37 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 918kHz
- FM
- PLLP_OUT
(2+1) = 3 (88+1) = 89 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 382kHz
- SM
- PLLP_OUT
(2+1) = 3 (79+1) = 80 (8+1) = (7+1) = (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 100kHz High-Speed (HS) Mode settings: Note: For HS transfers, both Non-HS and HS timing registers need to be programmed as Master code is sent in a Non-HS speed mode. For this, use one of speed modes (SM or FM or FM+) settings from the above table. For data transfers, use the HS timing settings as given in the table below.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Debo
unce
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_
1_0
- I2C
- DataRa
te
- I2C_CL
K_SRC
- I2C_CLK_SRC
- Frequency (in MHz)
- I2C_CLK_DI
- VISOR+1
- I2C_CLK_DIVISO
R_HSMODE+1
- I2C_I2C_HS_I
- NTERFACE_TI
- MING_0_0
- I2C
- SpeedMo
de (HS_TSU_
- STA+1)
(HS_THD_
- STA+1)
(HS_TSU_
- STO+1)
(HS_T
- HIGH
+1) (HS_T
- LOW+
1)
- HS
- PLLP_OU
- T0
(2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (8+1) = (3+1) = (9+1) = 10 (9+1) = 10 (9+1) = 10 3.48MHz
- I2C Timing register settings with I2C_CLK_SRC: CLK_M
Note: HS mode is not possible with CLK_M frequency.
- Debou
nce
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C
- DataRat
e
- I2C_I2C_INTE
- RFACE_TIMIN
G_0_0
- I2C_CLK_DIV
- ISOR+1
- I2C_CLK_DIVI
- SOR
_STD_FAST_
- MODE+1
- I2C_CLK
_SRC
- I2C_CLK_SR
C
- Frequency
(in MHz)
- I2C
- SpeedMo
de (TLO W+1) (THIG H+1) (TSU_ST A+1) (THD_ST A+1) (TSU_ST O+1) (TBUF +1)
- FM+
- CLK_M
19.2 (0+1) = 1 (5+1) = 6 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 800kHz
- FM
- CLK_M
19.2 (0+1) = 1 (12+1) = 13 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = ~370kHz
- SM
- CLK_M
19.2 (0+1) = 1 (19+1)= 20 (4+1) = (4+1) = (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 96kHz De-bounce impacts the I2C interface data rate in the following way.

- I2C Programming Guidelines

- I2C Programming Guidelines
Example: CLK_SOURCE = 408 MHz and Source Div = 5:
- I2C_Clock frequency = 408 / 5 = 81.6 MHz, thus I2C clock period = 12.25 ns
- Chip internal delay = 10 ns, Load_Delay = 55 ns, De-bounce = 2, Synchronizer Delay = ~3
- Round_Trip_Delay = (10 ns + 55 ns + 9 * 12.25 ns) = ~175.25 ns
- FM+ speed case: STD_FM_Div = 10
- STD_FM_Div * I2C_Clk_Period = 10 * 12.255 ns = 122.55 ns
- Round_Trip_Delay in I2C_Div cycles = Round_Trip_Delay/(STD_FM_Div * I2C_Clk_Period) = 1
(Rounded down)
- So, I2C SCL rate = 408 MHz / (5 * (8+1) * 10) = 906 kHz
If de-bounce is disabled, the Round_Trip_delay (in I2C_Div cycles) becomes less than 1.
- So, I2C SCL rate = 408 MHz / (5 * 8 * 10) = 1002 kHz = 1.02 MHz
##### 10.11.3.1.2 I2C Command ADDR Registers (used in Normal Mode Only)
- These registers, I2C_CMD_ADDR0 and I2C_CMD_ADDR1, contain the address of the slave with
which a transaction is intended. The I2C Master Controller can be programmed to transact with both 7-bit and 10-bit addressed slaves. Bit [0] of the I2C_CNFG register determines the size of the slave address to be transacted. If a 7-bit or a 10-bit slave address is chosen, the respective address is taken from I2C_CMD_ADDR0 [9:0], and the Read/Write command is taken from bits 6 and 7 of the I2C_CNFG Register. In a 2-Slave configuration, the slave 1 address (7-bit or 10-bit) is taken from I2C_CMD_ADDR0 [9:0] and Slave 2 address (7-bit or 10-bit) from I2C_CMD_ADDR1 [9:0]. The transfer length is the same in 2-slave operation and is taken from the I2C_CNFG [LENGTH] bit field. In 2-slave operation, the maximum possible transfer size is 4 bytes.
##### 10.11.3.1.3 I2C Data Registers (used in Normal Mode Only)
There are two data registers, I2C_CMD_DATA1 and I2C_CMD_DATA2, each of 32 bit length, which are to be loaded with the data to be transmitted or received as an I2C Master. When being used as I2C slave, the controller uses a separate byte-wide register to store the data to be transmitted or received (I2C_SL_RCVD register).

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.4 I2C Configuration Register
This register is to be configured with the following data:
- Number of bytes to be transmitted or received
- Select for 7-bit or 10-bit slave address
- Program to send a Start Byte
- Single or two slave operations
- Support of NOACK from an external peripheral
The I2C_CNGF [9] bit is used to issue a "Begin-Transaction" command to the I2C Master Controller. This bit is auto cleared by the hardware. The firmware should first configure all the other registers and bits [8:0] of the I2C_CNFG register before the I2C_CNFG [9] bit is programmed to one.
##### 10.11.3.1.5 I2C Configuration Load Register
This CONFIG load register transfers the software programmed configuration in the I2C registers to hardware internal registers used in the logic. It has three bit fields: 1. 2. 3.
- MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD for regular master and Bus Clear master logic
- SLV_CONFIG_LOAD for slave controller logic
TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD for SMBUS timeout logic. Software must set these fields to 1 for the actual register configuration to take effect. Thus software is programming only shadow registers through regular configuration. When these load_config bit fields are set to 1, it causes the regular/shadow registers configuration to be transferred to the hardware internal active registers. So software has to set these bit fields at the end of all regular register configurations. However, in normal or non-packet mode, these bit fields should be set to 1 before the I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] bit is set to 1. The I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] bit triggers a transfer on the I2C bus and should be programmed at the end of the entire configuration. These config_load bits are hardware auto-clear bits. Hardware clears these bit fields once the register configuration is moved to hardware internal active registers. Software must wait until these bits are auto-cleared before continuing with further programming. The wait time is not more than 100 ns for apb_clk = 100 MHz and i2c_clk = 100 MHz. When apb_clk = 20 MHz and i2c_clk = 20 MHz, it is not more than 500 ns time. Below are the register bit fields associated with each CONFIG_LOAD bit. MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD needs to be set for the following registers:
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0
- I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0
- I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0
- I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0
- I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
SLV_CONFIG_LOAD covers the following registers:
- I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0
- I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0
- I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[RST_SL_ON_TIMEOUT]
- I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0
TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD covers the following register bit fields:
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TIMEOUT]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_SEXT]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_MEXT]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TIMEOUT_EN]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_SEXT_EN]
- I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_MEXT_EN]
##### 10.11.3.1.6 I2C Controller Status Register
This register (I2C_STATUS) gives the status of the I2C Master operation. It includes the busy status of the I2C controller and the completion status of the command executed.
##### 10.11.3.1.7 I2C Interface Timing Registers
These registers provide flexibility to tune the I2C interface bus timing, if needed. Separate bit fields are provided for non-HS (STD/FM/FM+) and HS modes timing.
##### 10.11.3.1.8 I2C Master Controller Soft Reset Register
This register has a SOFT_RESET bit field that provides the option to reset the master controller without losing the register configuration. This does not impact the slave controller. If the software finds a requirement to reset the master controller alone, this bit field is useful. Master and slave controllers can be used simultaneously in an application. Writing 1 to
- I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] resets all internal states of the master logic,

- I2C Programming Guidelines
including FIFOs. Clear this bit to 0 for normal operation. For I2C applications where Timeout logic is not used, the software needs to wait for 2 µs after assertion and de-assertion of this soft reset. For SMBus applications, wait for 5 ms after assertion and deassertion of soft reset.
##### 10.11.3.1.9 I2C Slave ADDR Registers
Two slave ADDR registers are used to configure the address of the internal slave, I2C_SL_ADDR1 and I2C_SL_ADDR2. The bit [0] of I2C_SL_ADDR2 determines the address-size of the internal slave. When this bit is programmed to 0, the 7-bit slave address is taken from I2C_SL_ADDR1 [6:0]. When this bit is programmed to 1, the most significant two bits of the 10-bit slave address are taken from I2C_SL_ADDR2[2:1] and the least significant bits are taken from I2C_SL_ADDR1[7:0].
##### 10.11.3.1.10 I2C Controller Slave Status Register
This register (I2C_SL_STATUS) contains the status of an I2C slave. It has the following status bits:
- Bit 1: Direction of transfer
- Bit 2: New Transaction Received
- Bit 3: Receive Interrupt
Bit 4: END_TRANS; this bit is set when an I2C transfer is complete (as indicated by either a STOP or NoACK from master). Bit 5: RST_SL; the byte received following the receipt of general call address is 0x06. Therefore programmable part of the slave address needs to be reset and reprogrammed. Bit 6: REPROG_SL; the byte received following the receipt of general call address is 0x04. Therefore reprogram the programmable part of the slave address.
- Bit 7: HW_MSTR_INT; when set this bit indicates that master address has been transmitted
after general call address. Bits [14:8]: Hardware master address; the contents of this field are meaningful only when bit 7 (HW_MSTR_INT) is set. Note that the I2C controller generates an interrupt at the completion of each data byte received. In response to this interrupt, firmware must read the I2C_SL_STATUS register to confirm the cause of the interrupt and the direction of data transfer. If the interrupt is due to a data byte received (R/ W=0), firmware must read the data register and write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear the interrupt and get the SCL line released. If the interrupt is due to read operation (R/W=1), data should be written to I2C_SL_RCVD in order to release the SCL line from clock stretching. The I2C controller delays the release of the ACK handshake on the I2C bus until the SL.IRQ bit has been cleared by the firmware. The software has to write 1 to clear SL_STATUS register bits. I2C_SL_STATUS needs to be either polled or the I2C interrupt must be enabled for transfers to occur in slave mode.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
If the device slave is receiving data: I2C_SL_STATUS.SL_IRQ bit set indicates that byte has been received. Check the transfer direction from the RNW field. Read data byte from I2C_SL_RCVD register. Write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear SL_IRQ which causes the bus to be released. SL_IRQ is set again upon reception of next byte. If the device slave is transmitting data: I2C_SL_STATUS.SL_IRQ bit set indicates that address has been received. Check the transfer direction from the RNW field. Write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear SL_IRQ. Write data byte to I2C_SL_RCVD register. This write causes the bus to be released.
- SL_IRQ is set again upon transfer of the byte. Another byte can be written to continue the
operation. The slave stretches the SCL line in the following cases: Pending Interrupts from I2C_SL_STATUS register after a byte received in write or a data byte needs to be sent in read operation. The software has to clear them by writing 1 to the reg bit fields, which releases the SCL line. TX-FIFO is empty and no data is available to send to the master during a read operation. The software to write data to TX-FIFO to get the SCL line released. RX-FIFO is full and no room remains in the FIFO to receive any more data from the master. The software to read the RX-FIFO to allow the SCL line released. During address cycle, the SCL stretch occurs after the ACK bit. The stretch time includes the interrupt clear time and the SL_DELAY_COUNT. If it is a read operation, the clock stretch is extended until the data byte is written to the I2C_SL_RCVD register.
- During data phase, the SCL stretch occurs before and after the ACK bit. The stretch before
- ACK is for a duration of SL_DELAY_COUNT and the stretch time after the ACK bit is the
interrupt clear time plus the SL_DELAY_COUNT period. If it is a read operation, the clock stretch is extended until the data byte is written to the I2C_SL_RCVD register.
##### 10.11.3.1.11 Clock Gating Over Ride Enable Register
The second level clock gating improves power saving (SLCG is implemented for both master and slave operations). Clock gating is enabled by default. For any reason, if clock gating needs to be disabled, it can be done through a programmable I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE register. Separate bit fields are provided for the master, bus clear master, and slave controllers.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.12 Interrupt Generation in Non-Packet (Normal) Mode
In non-packet mode, the I2C controller generates interrupts upon the completion of transmission or reception of the specified number of bytes. A Master interrupt is generated when the number of bytes of the transaction, as programmed in the LENGTH field of the I2C_CNFG register, is complete. A Slave-interrupt is generated at the transmission/reception of each byte of data including address byte by the internal slave. Slave interrupts are to be cleared by the firmware as mentioned above.
#### 10.11.3.2 Programming Guidelines for Master in Normal Mode
##### 10.11.3.2.1 Master-Transmit Programming Model
This programming example is for 7-byte writes from master to an external slave:
- Program the I2C_CLK_DIVISOR register to get the required data rate based on I2C
- CLK_SOURCE register programming in CAR module
- Write the slave address in I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register based on 7-bit/10-bit addressing mode
- Write the first 4 bytes data in I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Write the remaining 3 bytes in I2C_CMD_DATA2 register
- Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value
- Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing based on slave device address width
Program I2C_CNFG [LENGTH]. This bit field works in (n+1) fashion so for a 7 byte transfer, 6 needs to be programmed in the LENGTH bit field
- Set I2C_CNFG [SLV2] = 0 as this is one is slave access
- Set CMD1 = 0 for write operation
- Set NOACK to 0 or 1 based on Slave type
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG [SEND] to 1 to begin a write transaction on the interface
- Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or
I2C_STATUS[BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS [CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the
slave for any of the bytes transferred.
##### 10.11.3.2.2 Master-Receive Programming Model
The read operation is divided into two steps based on random read or immediate read after a write. In a typical random read:

- I2C Programming Guidelines
1.
- Write command: Send slave register/memory index first from which the data needs to be
read
- Send read command to read the data
2. The above operation can be done in two separate configurations or in a single configuration using
- Repeated Start in 2-slave config
1.
- Write: Sending slave’s 1-byte register index first
- Write the slave address in I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register based on 7-bit /10-bit addressing
mode
- Write the slave’s internal register index (from which the data has to be read) in
- I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value
- Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing based on slave device address width
- Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 0 for a 1-byte register index transfer
- Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 0
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 0 for write operation
- Set I2C_CNFG[NOACK] to 0 or 1 based on Slave type
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface
Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS[CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from
the slave 2.
- Read: Send read command
- Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 6 for 7-bytes read
- Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 0 as this is one slave access
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 1 for read operation
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface
Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS[CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from
the slave
- Read the first 4 bytes data in the I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Read the remaining 3 bytes in the I2C_CMD_DATA2 register
Read using repeated-start in 2-slave mode. Note that maximum transfer size possible in 2-slave mode is 4 bytes.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write the slave address in the I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register with the LSB bit set to “0”
- Write the slave address in the I2C_CMD_ADDR1 register with the LSB bit set to “1”
- Write the slave’s internal register index byte (from which the data has to be read) in
- I2C_CMD_DATA1 register
- Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value as needed
- Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing
- Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 0 for 1 byte transfer
- Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 1
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 0 for write operation
- Set I2C_CNFG[CMD2] = 1 for read operation
- Set I2C_CNFG[NOACK] to 0 or 1 based on the Slave type
- Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register
- Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0
- Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface
Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero.
- Check I2C_STATUS [CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the
slave
- Read data from the I2C_CMD_DATA2 register
#### 10.11.3.3 Programming Guidelines for Packet-Based Interface
##### 10.11.3.3.1 Packet-Based Interface Registers
The following registers are used for a packet-based interface:
- I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0
- I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0
- I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0
- I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0
- I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0
- I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0
- I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0
- I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0
- I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0
All other registers/fields have no meaning in packet mode and should be used only in normal mode.
##### 10.11.3.3.2 Packet Header and Payload Programming
Software should post the packets to the I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO register. It writes the packet header followed by the payload to the I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO register. The header size can vary from three to four words. For I2C, the size is a three-word header for request packets and four words for response packets. The first two words of the header contain a generic header. The third word of the packet (and fourth as well for response packets) contains I2C transaction-specific information. The payload contains the actual data to be written to the slave. In case of read operations, payload is nil, and hence, the packet contains only a header.
##### 10.11.3.3.3 Reading from the I2C_RX_FIFO
The data received from the I2C bus is pushed into the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register. In PIO mode, a request interrupt is generated when the FIFO attention level is reached, and the corresponding interrupt enable bit is set. Software then reads the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register to get the data. In DMA mode, a request is asserted to DMA after the attention level is reached.
##### 10.11.3.3.4 REPEAT_START/STOP Bit in the Protocol Specific Header
This field indicates whether or not to put a stop or repeated-start condition after the current transaction. By default, this bit is zero and a stop condition is put on the bus. If this bit is set to 1, a repeat start is put on the bus before proceeding with the next packet. The REPEAT_START/STOP bit can be used for combining read operations and write operations within a single transaction with a repeat start, or to do transfers beyond the 64 Kbyte limit. This bit is present in the protocol- specific header.
##### 10.11.3.3.5 ContinueXfer Bit in the Protocol Specific Header
The I2C controller supports transfer sizes beyond 64 Kbytes without a repeat start condition, again by combining multiple packets. This is in addition to the ability to use a repeat start condition to do continuous transfers over 64 Kbyte limit. With the ContinueXfer field, the current transfer can continue without a stop or a repeat start condition.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.6 Transfers with START Byte
Transfers needing a longer start procedure can use the START Byte feature. In this mode, START Byte (8'b00000001) is transmitted after START condition and a dummy acknowledge (NACK) would be received. The actual transfer starts with a Repeated START condition then. For START byte transfers, set SEND_START_BYTE to 1 in the protocol specific header of the packet.
##### 10.11.3.3.7 Transfers with Slaves Having No-ACK Capability
There could be slave devices which do not generate ACK upon reception of a byte. The I2C Master has the capability to do the transfers with these devices too. This would be done by setting CONTINUE_ON_NACK bit field of the protocol specific header to 1. In this case, the I2C master ignores the NACK bit and continues the transfers.
##### 10.11.3.3.8 HS_MODE Transfers
HS_MODE transfers are supported in packet mode only. For HS transfers, write HS master code byte in HS_MASTER_ADDR field of the protocol specific header and set HS_MODE bit to 1. If HS_MODE bit is programmed to 0, all the transfers would be done in Non-HS modes (Standard/Fm/
- Fm+) based on the I2C clocks frequency programming. In HS mode, Master code byte
is transmitted in (Standard/Fm/Fm+) speed mode and the data transfers would happen in HS mode. I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 and I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 registers would be used for HS timing generation on the I2C bus.
##### 10.11.3.3.9 Master FIFO Control
- In DMA mode, I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that
need to be empty in I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 for the DMA trigger to be asserted.
- I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be full in
I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 for the DMA trigger to be asserted.
- In PIO mode, the INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] is be set if the
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 empty count is more than the value programmed in TX_FIFO_TRIG.
- Similarly INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[RFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 full
count is more than the value programmed in RX_FIFO_TRIG. The CPU is interrupted if the status bits are set and their corresponding INT_EN bit is set in the Interrupt Mask Register. The depth of the TX and RX FIFOs is 128 words.
- For Transmit and Receive Data requests in DMA or PIO mode, the
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] bit needs to be set to 1 along with the FIFO_TRIG level
settings. Otherwise, requests are not generated.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
This register has separate FLUSH control bits for the Master controller TX_FIFO and RX_FIFO. Writing 1 to these bits initiates the FIFO flush operation. They are auto-cleared to 0 once the flush operation is complete.
##### 10.11.3.3.10 Master FIFO Status
This register indicates the number of entries that are empty in the Master controller TX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0[TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT]) and the number of entries that are full in the RX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0[RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT]).
##### 10.11.3.3.11 Slave FIFO Control
I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be empty in I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 for the data transmit request to be asserted.
- I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be full in
I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 for the received data request to be asserted.
- In PIO mode, INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[SLV_TFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if the
- I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 empty count is more than the value programmed in
- TX_FIFO_TRIG. Similarly INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER [SLV_RFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if
- I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 full count is more than the value programmed in RX_FIFO_TRIG. CPU is
interrupted if status bits are set and their corresponding INT_EN is set in the Interrupt Mask Register. The depth of Tx and Rx FIFOs is 128 words.
- For Transmit and Receive Data requests in FIFO mode, I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] bit
needs to be set to 1 along with FIFO_TRIG level settings. Otherwise, requests are not generated. This register has separate FLUSH control bits for the Slave controller TX_FIFO and RX_FIFO. Write 1 to these bits initiates the FIFO flush operation. They are auto-cleared to 0 once the flush operation is complete.
##### 10.11.3.3.12 Slave FIFO Status
This register indicates the number of entries that are empty in the Slave controller TX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_SLV_FIFO_STATUS_0[TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT]) and the number of entries that are full in the RX_FIFO (bit field:I2C_SLV_FIFO_STATUS_0[RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT]).
##### 10.11.3.3.13 Interrupt Status Register
This register (INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER) gives the status of the I2C Master in Packet Mode operation and also the status of Slave controller in FIFO mode and SMBUS timeout status. The register bits are set to 1 when the corresponding event happens. The bit fields are sticky. Once set to 1, they stay 1. Write 1 to clear them to 0. However, TFIFO_DATA_REQ and RFIFO_DATA_REQ fields are exceptions to this as they depend on the FIFO trigger levels and cannot be cleared.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.14 Interrupt Mask Register
This register (I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0) contains the interrupt enable bits for the status bits given in INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. A separate interrupt enable bit is available for each bit field of INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. Setting an INT_EN bit in this register enables signaling an interrupt to the system when corresponding status bit is set in the INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. Clearing it will mask the interrupt.
##### 10.11.3.3.15 Interrupt Source Register
- This read-only register (I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER) returns the AND of Interrupt Mask
and Interrupt Status Registers bit fields. A bit field in this register would be set if the corresponding bit fields in I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 and INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER are set to 1. Example:
- I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER[ARB_LOST] = AND(I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER
[ARB_LOST_INT_EN], INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER [ARB_LOST])
##### 10.11.3.3.16 Packet Transfer Status
In addition to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0, packet transfer status can be obtained from
- I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 and I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 registers as
well with additional information of the packet. Software can read this register to know which packet is currently being transferred, how many bytes are transferred in the on-going packet or packet is successfully transferred or any Bus lost or NACK happened during the transfer. TRANSFER_PKT_ID gives the ID of on-going packet or last transmitted packet ID.
- TRANSFER_BYTENUM in the I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 register gives the
information about the number of bytes that have been transferred so far in the current packet. Once the packet transfer is done, this field becomes zero.
- TRANSFER_COMPLETE field would be set when a packet (with STOP=1) is successfully
transferred. ARB_LOST shows the loss of the bus. NOACK_FOR_ADDR for the NOACK received for Address byte. NOACK_FOR_DATA for the NOACK received for data byte.
- CONTROLLER_BUSY shows PACKET_MODE_EN bit status. It is 1 as long as packet mode is
enabled.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.17 Error Handling
In case of an error (e.g., NOACK or loss of arbitration, TX_FIFO overflow or RX_FIFO underflow, the following steps describe the sequence that need to be followed before proceeding with any further transactions. When an error occurs, the I2C Master controller stops further packet transfers and sets the corresponding status bits in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER for the event (ARB_LOST/ NOACK/TFIFO_OVF/ RFIFO_UNF) occurred.
- PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS register is updated with the current error packet ID, at which the
error is occurred.
- Handling TFIFO_OVF and RFIFO_UNF events
- TFIFO_OVF or RFIFO_UNF can potentially lead to I2C controller hang as there would be
data drop due to FIFO overflow or packets are combined with Repeated Start in multi- packet transfers.
- TX_FIFO overflow or Rx underflow happens when software writes to an already full
TX_FIFO or reading an empty RX_FIFO, software must avoid these conditions. - - The controller reset (from CAR) is required to recover from a I2C-bus hang; reset results in the Master controller losing the Bus Busy status information (this is a problem in multi- master mode). -
- Handling ARB_LOST and NOACK events
If DMA is used for the transfers, disable the DMA and wait until DMA becomes idle. -
- Clear the I2C FIFOs entries using FIFO FLUSH bits
-
- Clear the ARB_LOST and NOACK bits in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_Register
-
- After completing the above, the I2C controller is ready for the transfers again
-
- Restart the DMA if used
- Start new transfer following regular programming guidelines
- -
##### 10.11.3.3.18 Slave ACK WithHold Feature in FIFO Mode
In FIFO mode, slave holds the I2C bus by pulling SCL line low (clock stretching) after sending the
- ACK for the very last byte of transfer. Register bit fields ACK_LAST_BYTE and
ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID fields are used for this purpose. When Slave receives its Rx Buffer full data, it holds the I2C bus on the very last byte of the transfer. Software can ACK or NACK the transfer by setting the ACK_LAST_BYTE bit field to the required value. It has to set ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID bit field next to say that ACK_LAST_BYTE bit field has been updated. Slave sends the ACK/NACK to the interface for the next byte accordingly. Until that time, Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching. In SMBUS applications, Host (Software) is responsible for providing this indication to I2C slave in a timely fashion before timeouts happen.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.19 Slave Usage in FIFO Mode
- Slave data transfers can be done using FIFO. Data can be transmitted and received through
- I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 and I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 registers respectively. For this,
FIFO_XFER_EN bit in I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 register needs to be set. In FIFO-XFER mode, slave by default works in one byte mode, i.e., initially when a single byte is received, I2C bus is held and SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED interrupt is generated. Software should indicate whether to ACK or not to the next byte in the transfer by writing into ACK_LAST_BYTE field of I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 register. Note that ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID field also needs to be set to indicate to hardware that ACK_LAST_BYTE is being updated. When software receives interrupt due to SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED, it can check ACK_WITHHELD of I2C_I2C_SLV_PACKET_STATUS_0 register to see if slave is withholding the ACK for the last byte.
- Software can update the buffer size from default to any number by programming
I2C_SLV_PAYLOAD_0[BUFFER_SIZE].
#### 10.11.3.4 Master in Packet Mode Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.4.1 Programming Model for Master-Transmit, Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C-Bus Speed
Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers
Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing.
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b
- Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for Data Requests in PIO Mode
Below settings are for example only. Program this bit field to the required trigger levels.
- Write I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3 (0x3 = System gets request from the
I2C controller when at least four words are empty in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0).
- Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE
(for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2 Example only, program as required. Refer to
the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0
- Activate the Configuration
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware
- Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] =
- ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE
This completes the configuration. Next step is posting the packets to the I2C controller to initiate data transfers on the I2C-bus.
- Packets Posting Based on TFIFO Data Requests
There could be one packet or more than one packet that need to be transferred from I2C. 1.
- One packet transfer size(in words) = packet_header (in words) +payload_size (in words)
Total transfer size = packet1_transfer_size + packet2_transfer_size +……. +packetN_transfer_size 2. 3.
- When the TX_FIFO attention level is reached, I2C sets the
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] bit and sends an interrupt to
system if the interrupt is enabled with
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE setting
4.
- Transmit Data Request Interrupt Handling
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- For master transmit data requests,
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] would be set to 1.
- Disable the interrupt by writing
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = DISABLE
- Write the packet words to I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0. The total words size that would be
written for every TFIFO_DATA_REQ request should be less than or equal to the FIFO trigger level. Otherwise, it causes the TX_FIFO to overflow.
- Decrement the total transfer size with the number of words written to the FIFO in the
previous step (total_transfer_size = total_transfer_size - #words written to TX_FIFO). And check if the new transfer size is zero. If not zero, enable interrupt for TFIFO_DATA_REQ with 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE and wait for the
new interrupt. The above steps continue until all the packets are posted to the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0. Packet parsing: once a packet is available in the TX_FIFO, I2C parses it and starts doing transfers on the I2C bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers.
- Successful Transfers
- Once a packet is transmitted successfully by the I2C Master,
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the
status. And if the packet header is configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is also set.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 1. 2.
- Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. If the packet was configured to have STOP bit,
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be
set.
- Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE]
and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 1. 2. 3.
- Transfers Completion
- Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from
memory.
- Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or
- ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE alerts (if packets have only STOP) to track how many
packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C signals to the system. 1. 2.
- Unsuccessful Transfers
A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. Transfer could be unsuccessful due to I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is
already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK
for address or data byte transfer of a transaction.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full. 1. 2. 3.
- When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers
and flushes the data from the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 4. 5.
- Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF). In all these cases, an I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers. 2. Reset the I2C controller. 3. 4. Redo the controller configuration and go for the transfers. Note: I2C issues the DATA requests to the system based on FIFO trigger levels settings and the
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] setting. PACKET_MODE_EN bit needs to be set to 1 for
requests generation.
##### 10.11.3.4.2 Programming Model for Master-Transmit, DMA Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
1.
- Pinmux programming
2.
- I2C controller reset release
3.
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C Bus Speed
Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers
Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing.
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b
- Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for DMA Requests
Below settings are for example only. Program this bit field to the required trigger levels.
- Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3
(0x3 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least four words are empty in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register).
- Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] =
- ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for
tracking packet transfers completion status
- Post I2C Packets (Headers and Data) to the Memory for the Write Transfers
Refer to the I/O Packet Format section for packet structure. Program RESP_PKT_ENABLE = 0 in the packet header.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Configure DMA for I2C Transfers
- DMA can be one of GPCDMA/BPMPDMA/AONDMA/SCEDMA. Check which DMA needs to be used
based on the I2C-bus. Note the following when configuring DMA for I2C transfers: Set DMA source pointer to the memory location where the I2C packets are stored. 1. Set DMA destination pointer to I2C instance base address + I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO offset. 2. 3. 4. 5. DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings. Configure DMA to Flow control mode.
- DMA Transfer size should match the total packets size in words. For example, three Write
packets. First packet = 3 bytes transfer, second packet = 8 bytes transfer and third packet = 11 bytes transfer. Total size = 4+5+6=15 words.
- Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE
(for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2. Example only, program as required. Refer to
the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0
- Activate the Configuration
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and
I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
With this, it initiates the write transfers from the I2C master to the bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers.
- Successful Transfers
- Once a packet is transmitted successfully by the I2C Master,
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the
status. And if the packet header configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit will also be set.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system
1. 2.
- Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. If the packet was configured to have STOP bit,
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be
set.
- Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE]
and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 2. 3.
- Transfers Completion
- Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from
memory.
- Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or
- ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE alerts (if packets have only STOP) to track how many
packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C signals to the system. 1. 2.
- Unsuccessful Transfers
A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. The transfer could be unsuccessful due to I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is
already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. 1.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
2.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK
for address or data byte transfer of a transaction.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full. 3.
- When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers
and flushes the data from the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 4. 5.
- Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF) In all these cases, an I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers 2.
- Assert I2C controller reset
3. 4.
- Disable DMA
- Release I2C controller reset
5. Redo the I2C configuration, including DMA, and go for the transfers. 6. Notes:
- I2C issues the requests to DMA based on FIFO trigger levels settings and the
- I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] setting. PACKET_MODE_EN bit needs to be set to 1 for
requests generation.
- Packet transfer status is also available in I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 and
- I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 registers. Software can read these registers to
know which packet is currently being transferred (TRANSFER_PKT_ID), how many bytes are transferred in the on-going packet (TRANSFER_BYTENUM) or if the previous packet with
- STOP setting is successfully transferred (TRANSFER_COMPLETE and TRANSFER_PKT_ID) or
any ARB_LOST/NACK event happened (ARB_LOST, NOACK_FOR_ADDR/NOACK_FOR_DATA). 1. 2.
##### 10.11.3.4.3 Programming Model for Master-Receive, DMA Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing an I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus)
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C Bus Speed
Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details.
- Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers
Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing.
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308
- Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b
- Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for DMA Requests
Below settings are for example only. Program the bit fields to the required trigger levels.
- Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x1
- Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3
(0x1 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least two words are empty in in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0). (0x3 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least four words are full in the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register).
- Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[RFIFO_UNF_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] =
ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status.
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for
tracking packet transfers completion status.
- Prepare and Save I2C Packets in the Memory for the Read Transfers
Refer to the I/O Packet Format section for packet structure. Program RESP_PKT_ENABLE = 0 in the packet header.
- Configure DMA for I2C Transfers
- DMA can be one of GPCDMA/BPMPDMA/AONDMA/SCEDMA. Check which DMA needs to be used
based on the I2C bus, and for complete DMA programming model, refer to the corresponding DMA programming guidelines document. It is out of scope for this document. Note the following when configuring DMA for I2C transfers: For packets transfer from memory to the I2C controller, if DMA CH0 is used:
- Set DMA CH0 source pointer to the memory location where the I2C packets are stored
- Set DMA CH0 destination pointer to I2C instance base-address + I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO
offset
- DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings
- Configure DMA to Flow control mode
DMA CH0 transfer size should match the total packets size in words. Since it is read packets only, only packet headers would be there. For example, 3 Read packets. Total size = 3+3+3= 9 words To transfer the received-data from the I2C controller to memory, if DMA CH1 is used:
- Set DMA CH1 source pointer to I2C instance base address + I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 offset
- Set DMA CH1 destination pointer to the memory location where the I2C data needs to be
saved.
- DMA CH1 burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings
- Configure DMA to Flow control mode
- DMA Transfer size should match the total words that need to be read from
I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0.
- Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE
(for multi-master bus)

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0
Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2. Example only, program as required.
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0
- Activate the Configuration
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware
With this, it will initiate the read transfers by the I2C master on the bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers.
- Successful Transfers
- Once a packet transfer is successfully done by the I2C Master,
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the
status. If the packet header configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit will also be set.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 1. 2.
- Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers
1.
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1.
- If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0
[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. And if the packet was configured to have STOP bit,
- I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be
set. 2.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE]
and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 3.
- Transfers Completion
- Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from
memory.
- Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or
- ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have only STOP) alerts to track how many
packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C sends to the system. 1. 2.
- Check DMA status if it read all the data bytes from the I2C controller and saved it to the
memory. 3.
- Unsuccessful Transfers
A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. The transfer could be unsuccessful due to the I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors or I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 Underflow errors.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is
already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK
for address or data byte transfer of a transaction.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to
I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[RFIFO_UNF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU reads
I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 even it is empty. 1. 2. 3. 4.
- When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers
and flushes the data from the FIFOs.
- If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in
I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 5. 6.
- Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers
- Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set
to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF/ RFIFO_UNF) 1.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
In all these cases, the I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers 2.
- Assert I2C controller reset
3. 4.
- Disable DMA
- Release I2C controller reset
5. Redo the I2C configuration, including DMA, and go for the transfers. 6.
#### 10.11.3.5 Programming Guidelines for Slave in Byte Mode
##### 10.11.3.5.1 Programming Model for Slave-Receive in 7-bit Addressing Mode
(Transfer Direction not Changed), Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0,SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a Write transaction from the I2C Master device.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Slave Response to Address Phase of the Write Transaction
- When Slave receives address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed
address, it does the following. 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ
- Saves the received address byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. 3. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. Each bit field signifies an event occurrence. If a bit field is set to 1, it means, the current interrupt is because of the relevant event to this bit.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE would be set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt and release the SCL line allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction. 4. 5. 6. 7.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction
When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4.
- Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit would be set to 1.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
3. 4.
- Read the data byte from I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register
To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting.
- Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] =
- ENABLE
Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction 5.
- Slave Response to STOP Condition of the Write Transaction
If the Master sends a STOP condition next, the Slave does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
- STOP condition is received
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Stop Condition is Received
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the STOP condition case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
- I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3. Notes: 1.
- If the Master terminates the transaction while the Slave controller is ready to accept the
data, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR] bit is set at the end of the transaction when STOP condition is received. This bit can be cleared by writing 1 to it or it can be ignored. If the Slave controller sends NACK to any of the bytes during the write transfer, Master will terminate the transaction after seeing NACK bit. In this case, No status bits (END_TRANS,
- SL_IRQ or SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR) would be set when STOP condition is received. No interrupts
either. 2.
##### 10.11.3.5.2 Programming Model for Slave-Transmit in 7-bit Addressing Mode
(Transfer Direction not Changed), Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a Read transaction from the I2C Master device.
- Slave Response to Address Phase of Read Transaction
When the Slave receives an address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ is set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt. Write Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. Master can read this byte now. 3. 4. 5.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction
If Master ACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to continue the read operation further. The Slave controller does the following in this case: 1. 2. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3.
- Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer.
- Slave Response to End of the Read Transaction
If Master NACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to end the transaction. The Slave controller does the following then: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
the end of current transaction.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
- I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
##### 10.11.3.5.3 Programming Model for Slave-Receive-Transmit (Transfer Direction
- Changed from Receive-to-Transmit with RepeatedStart) in 7-bit
- Addressing Mode, Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED
- Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD_INT_EN] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a transaction from the I2C Master device.
- Slave Response to Address Phase of Write Transaction
When the Slave receives address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. 3. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. Each bit field signifies an event occurrence. If a bit field is set to 1, it means, the current interrupt is because of the relevant event to this bit.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
4.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE would be set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction. 5. 6. 7.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction
When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4.
- Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Read the data byte from the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting.
- Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] =
- ENABLE
Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction. 5.
- Slave Response to Write-to-Read Transfer Direction Change with RepeatedStart Condition
When the Master sends a RepeatedStart condition and changes the transfer direction from write to read, the Slave controller does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
the new transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the Master. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions, it would be
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt.
- This will set I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD] bit to 1 now, and an interrupt
is generated. Clear the interrupt by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD] bit field.
- I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_TX_BUFFER_REQ] bit is set now. This can be
ignored. Write Data byte to I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. The Master can read the byte now. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction
If Master ACKs previous byte of the read transfer, it means the Master wants to continue the read operation further. The Slave controller does the following in this case: 1. 2. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3.
- Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer.
- Slave Response to End of the Read Transaction
If Master NACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to end the transaction. The Slave controller does the following then: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
the end of current transaction.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
2.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled.
- Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
##### 10.11.3.5.4 Programming Model for Slave-Transmit-Receive (transfer direction
changed from Transmit-to-Receive with RepeatedStart) in 7-bit
- Addressing Mode, Interrupt Method
- Initial Configuration
Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following:
- I2C clocks programming
- Pinmux programming
- I2C controller reset release
- I2C Controller Registers Initialization
- Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED]
- Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e
- Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0
- Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]}
- To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE

- I2C Programming Guidelines
- Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts
- Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE
- Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0
- Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE
- Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE
- I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE
- Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields
1. 2.
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
- Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero
With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a transaction from the I2C Master device.
- Slave Response to Address Phase of Read Transaction
When the Slave receives an address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following:

- I2C Programming Guidelines
1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1 = READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt enable bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ is set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This will clear the interrupt. Write Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. The Master can read this byte now. 3. 4. 5.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction
If Master ACKs previous byte transfer, it means, Master wants to continue the read operation further. Slave controller does the following in this case. 1. 2. Sets the I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3.
- Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case
1. 2. 3. 4. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer.
- Slave Response to Read-to-Write Transfer Direction Change with RepeatedStart Condition
When Master wants to send RepeatedStart condition to change the transfer direction from read to write, it will NACK the last byte of the read transfer before sending Repeated condition.

- I2C Programming Guidelines
The Slave does the following when this happens: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
the end of read transaction.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
- When New Transaction (READ) started with RepeatedStart, The Slave does the following after
receiving the address byte of the new transaction: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates
transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1 = READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a
new transaction is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 5.
- New Transaction Interrupt Handling
1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions,
I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE is set.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to
them. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction 3. 4.
- Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction
When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set.

- I2C Registers
The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4.
- Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte
1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Read the data byte from the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting.
- Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] =
ENABLE. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction. 5.
- Slave Response to STOP Condition of the Write Transaction
If the Master sends STOP condition next, the Slave does the following: 1.
- Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
STOP condition is received.
- Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt bits
(I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2.
- Interrupts Handling When Stop Condition is Received
1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1.
- In the STOP condition case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and
I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1.
- Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3. Notes: 1. If the Master terminates the transaction while the Slave controller is ready to accept the data during write transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR] bit is set at the end of the transaction when STOP condition is received. This bit can be cleared by writing 1 to it or it can be ignored. If the Slave controller sends NACK to any of the bytes during the write transfer, the Master will terminate the transaction after seeing the NACK bit. In this case, no status bits (END_TRANS, SL_IRQ or SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR) would be set when STOP condition is received. No interrupts either. 2.}.Body)
