# 10.3.2 Functional Description

#### 10.3.2.1 Interface Components
The figure below shows a system perspective of the UFS Complex covering the hierarchy of both hardware and software components that form the interface to the external UFS device.
**Figure 10.14 UFS Interface System Overview**

- Universal Flash Storage Complex (UFS)
#### 10.3.2.2 UFS Complex Interfaces and Internal Blocks
##### 10.3.2.2.1 Memory Controller Interface
UFS is a direct client of the Memory Controller in the SoC and uses an AXI interface for DMA requests and responses. A block referred to as AXICIF bridges from the AXI bus protocol to the internal protocol for memory controller clients.
##### 10.3.2.2.2 APB Bridge
- An APB interface is supported by the UFSHC programming interface. UFS MMIO register access
and UniPro register access are supported in UFSHC. UniPro registers are however not accessed directly, but through the UFS MMIO register (UICC registers) by using DME_SET and DME_GET operations.
##### 10.3.2.2.3 CAR
Refer to the Clock and Reset (CAR) Controller chapter, and associated software documentation, for the control interface for UFS clocks.
##### 10.3.2.2.4 Arbiter
- To deliver optimal performance, the host controller’s initiator interface needs to perform
transactions on the system bus without adding additional delays. The arbiter determines the order in which requests are being executed. This order inevitably has impact on the available bandwidth of the system. It is important to minimize the latency introduced by the access time behind a series of similar requests. For instance, a block of read or write requests, or a request stream with alternating types, like read followed by write, followed by read, and so on. The DMA engine is responsible for moving data between system memories without any interaction with the system host. The DMA engine also makes requests to the Arbiter for the AXI bus.
##### 10.3.2.2.5 UTP Engine
The UFS Transport Protocol (UTP) engine is responsible for managing the UFS protocol between the UFS host controller and the external UFS device. While UFS requests are sent to the UFS host controller core in a single command, they may trigger a series of UFS packets transferred between the host and external devices. The UTP Engine provides several different functions:
- Managing low-level UFS protocol between device and host
- Managing the response from the device and storing the appropriate driver-level information
in system memory
- Triggering the DMA engine to fetch/store data

- Universal Flash Storage Complex (UFS)
- Managing scatter/gather table and setting up DMA engine accordingly
- Maximizing throughput by intelligent pre-fetching, buffering and pre-configuration
- Minimizing required bus bandwidth by reducing unnecessary bus activities
##### 10.3.2.2.6 C-Port Adapter
The C-Port adapter interfaces to the C-Port interface of the UniPro Transport layer and handles the C-Port protocol. The C-Port adapter does UPIU encapsulation and de-capsulation.
- UPIU does encapsulation in the following scenario
1. 2. 3. Raw data from system memory is encapsulated into DATA OUT UPIUs. UFS Task Management commands are converted into Task Management Request UPIUs. UFS Query commands are converted into Query Request UPIUs.
- UPIU does de-capsulation in the following scenario
1. 2. 3. 4. Raw data is extracted from DATA IN UPIUs. Status, Response, and Sense data are extracted from Response UPIUs. Service Response is extracted from Task Management Response UPIUs. Opcode-specific Field information is extracted from Query Response UPIUs.
##### 10.3.2.2.7 UPHY Lane Configuration
The 8-lane HSIO UPHY is shared between the high-speed I/O controllers of PCIe, UFS, XUSB, and HSSTP. The SoC supports lane mapping to allow the HSIO UPHY lanes to be configured as different I/O interfaces based on use cases. The HSIO UPHY with differential simplex (DS) lanes supports PCIe, USB 3.2, and UFS for normal operation and supports HSSTP for debug stream output. In these mapping options, Lane 6 and
- Lane 7 may be switched to be controlled by UFS in x2 connection and Lane 6 only in UFS x1
configuration.
- Fuse bits provide the information to the Software/Boot ROM about the given platform
configuration for UFS, i.e., either x1 or x2. Lane configuration control is done in the UPHY pad macro mux control logic. The table below summarizes the UPHY12 configuration for UFS.
- Table 10.4 UPHY12 Configuration for UFS

