# 10.4.1 Overview

The MIPI® M-PHY® is the physical interface for the Universal Flash Storage (UFS) controller. The NVIDIA® Orin™ can be configured to have up to a two-lane M-PHY transmit and receive interface for UFS on its UPHY interface. M-PHY is a low power end-to-end serial differential interface technology defined by the MIPI Alliance, that features power management and configurable throughput. Refer to the M-PHY specification (MIPI Alliance Specification for M-PHY, v3.1) for the detailed definition of M-PHY. The M-PHY controller is used to allow up to two lanes of the UPHY physical interfaces to be operated in an M-PHY compliant manner as part of the UFS interface, and to provide the RMMI interface defined in Annex A of the M-PHY Specification to the protocol layer controllers above it. M-PHY supports a Type I MODULE. This utilizes Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) signaling with embedded clocks in its LS-MODE. While UFS does define clock and reset signals, the UFS interface utilizes the Type I MODULE, and the clock is not used for LS-MODE signal synchronization.
#### 10.4.1.1 Features
- Two Lanes M-PHY for UFS
- Type I MODULE only
- Supports LINE-CFG with media converters
- Does not support SYS signaling with dedicated synchronous clock signal
- LS-MODE
M-TX and M-RX support up to PWM-G4
- UFS devices may support up to PWM-G4
-
- HS-MODE
M-TX and M-RX support up to HS-G4
- Supports both Rate A and Rate B series
- Low Power
- Supports M-PHY SLEEP, STALL, and HIBERN8 states
- Supports clock gating
- Supports PHY PAD-PLL power down when all links are in DISABLED or HIBERN8 state

- MIPI M-PHY
- Supports power gating when all links are in DISABLED or HIBERN8 state
- Attributes
- Specification defined M-TX/M-RX attributes
- Private attributes for in-house programming
- APB attribute control for accessing all attributes corresponding to a pad brick

