# 10.5.4 Programming Guidelines

#### 10.5.4.1 Initialization
##### 10.5.4.1.1 PLL and PHY Initialization
The PAD driver enables PCIe related PLLs. For UPHY PLLs, PAD driver is required to setup the frequencies for these PLLs based on the lane muxing configuration and the targeted link speeds of the PCIe links. PAD driver enables platform specific regulators enable power rails to the pads. PAD driver de-asserts Reset to UPHY PAD and UPHY PAD Macro.
- Set the following CAR register field to '0' to de-assert Reset to UPHY Pad and UPHY Pad
Macros. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_UPHY_0.SWR_UPHY_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX_USB_UPHY_0.SWR_PEX_USB_UPHY_RST = 0) The PAD driver programs the UPHY Pad Macro registers to assign the UPHY lanes, set static UPHY LANE and PLL parameters according to the platform specific configuration, and assign the static UPHY LANE parameters of lanes assigned to PCIe, according to the platform specific configuration. P2U driver de-asserts Reset to PIPE2UPHY Common APB. Set the following CAR register field to '0' to de-assert Reset to PIPE2UPHY Common APB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_COMMON_APB_RST = 0) The P2U driver programs the Common APB registers to map the P2U to PCIe controllers.
- APPL_COMMON_CONTROL.XBAR_CONFIG
##### 10.5.4.1.2 Root Port
The PAD driver programs the PINMUX registers to setup the GPIO sideband signals for PCIe Root Port controllers.
- Set the following PINMUX register field to setup the WAKE# signal shared by all PCIe Root
Ports. (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_WAKE_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE)
- Set the following PINMUX register field to setup the RESET# and CLKREQ# signals for each
PCIe controller configured as a Root Port. (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_RST_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L1_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L1_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH)

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L1_RST_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L2_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L2_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L2_RST_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L3_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L3_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L3_RST_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH)
- PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE)
(PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_RST_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L5_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L5_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L5_RST_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH)
##### 10.5.4.1.3 Endpoint
- The PAD driver programs the PINMUX registers to setup the GPIO sideband signals for PCIe
Endpoint controllers.
- Set the following PINMUX register field to setup the CLKREQ# for each PCIe controller
configured as an Endpoint. (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_RST_N_0.E_INPUT = DISABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_RST_N_0.E_INPUT = DISABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L5_CLKREQ_N_0.E_INPUT = ENABLE) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L5_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L5_RST_N_0.E_INPUT = DISABLE) As the PCIe Endpoint controllers cannot use the per-controller RESET# output when configured in Endpoint mode, for Orin to connect to a PCIe Root Port, it allocates a GPIO pin under direct software control as the PCIe Endpoint's RESET#. The GPIO is required to be setup to generate Interrupt when the system is in SC0 and generate wake even when the system is in SC7. The PCIe driver enables the allocated GPIO as an Interrupt source to signal Reset event from PCIe Root Port to the PCIe Endpoint controller.
- Enable the Interrupt event through GPIO registers

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
As the PCIe Endpoint controllers do not directly support WAKE#, if wake signaling is required when Orin is connected to a PCIe Root Port and the link is in L2, Orin allocates a GPIO pin under direct software control to drive WAKE#.
##### 10.5.4.1.4 Programming CLKREQ
CLKREQ requires special programming to operate correctly.
- CLKREQ# is an input-only open-drain signal for Endpoints supporting clock power management
but not L1 sub-states, and is a bidirectional open-drain signal for Endpoints supporting L1 sub- states. Software needs to configure the pads after it checks the capabilities of the Endpoint after the link is up. Set the following field of the PCIe PADCTL registers to '1', if Endpoint supports clock power management but does not support L1 sub-states. (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 1) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L1_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 1) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L2_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 1) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L3_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 1) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 1) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_2_PEX_L5_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 1)
- Set the following field of the PCIe PADCTL registers to '0', if Endpoint supports L1 sub-
states. (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L0_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 0) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L1_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 0) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L2_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 0) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L3_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 0) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_PEX_L4_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 0) (PADCTL_PEX_CTL_2_PEX_L5_CLKREQ_N_0.TRISTATE = 0)
##### 10.5.4.1.5 PCIe Controller Setup
The PCIe driver de-asserts Reset to NVHS rail domain if PCIe C5 is enabled in the platform. Set the following CAR register field to '0' to de-assert Reset to the NVHS power rail domain. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVHS_RAIL_0.SWR_NVHS_RAIL_RST = 0) The PCIe driver de-asserts Reset to APB Client of each PCIe controller.
- Set the following CAR register field to '0' to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe
controllers. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_0_APB_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_1_APB_RST = 0)

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_2_APB_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_3_APB_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_4_APB_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_5_APB_RST = 0)
- The PAD driver sets private PIPE2UPHY parameters according to the platform specific
configuration according to the platform specific configuration. The PCIe driver sets up operation modes of each PCIe controller through its APB Client. Set the following address registers to set up the address region of the local configuration registers of each PCIe controllers.
- APPL_CFG_BASE_ADDR.CFG_BASE_ADDR
Set the following general control register field to set up the device type configuration of PCIe controllers.
- APPL_DM_TYPE.DEVICE_TYPE to 'END_POINT' or 'ROOT_PORT'
Set the following electromechnical register field to set the device presence status of PCIe controllers.
- APPL_CTRL.SYS_PRE_DET_STATE
The PCIe driver enables clocks to PCIe controller. Set the following CAR register field to '0' to enable clocks to the PCIe controllers. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0 = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_1 = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_2 = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_3 = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_4 = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX1_CORE_5 = 0)
- The PCIe driver de-asserts Reset to PCIe controller
Set the following CAR register field to '0' to de-assert Reset to the PCIe controllers. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_0_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_1_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_2_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_3_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_4_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_5_RST = 0) The PCIe driver programs PCIe controller to set up the frequency of the AUX_CLK to match the frequency of oscillator clock.
- Set the following PCIe controller register

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
- PF0_PORT_LOGIC_AUX_CLK_FREQ_OFF_0.AUX_CLK_FREQ
- The PCIe driver programs the iATU of each PCIe controller to set up the address mapping of
outbound and inbound requests as briefly described below.
- For Root Port, setup the one 32-bit address mapping for outbound configuration requests
through PCIe controller extended configuration registers. Each PCI bus requires 1 MB address region.
- For Root Port, setup the one 32-bit address mapping for outbound I/O requests through PCIe
controller extended configuration registers if I/O register is required or expected.
- For Root Port and Endpoint, setup the one 32-bit address mapping for outbound memory
requests through PCIe controller extended configuration registers.
- For Root Port and Endpoint, setup the one 64-bit address mapping for outbound memory
requests through PCIe controller extended configuration registers.
- For Endpoint, setup the one 64-bit address mapping for inbound memory requests through
PCIe controller extended configuration registers.
#### 10.5.4.2 PCIe Device Discovery and Enumeration
##### 10.5.4.2.1 Root Port
The PCIe driver enables reference clock output to connecting to each PCIe controller through its APB Client.
- Set the following sideband registers to enable reference clock output of each PCIe
controllers for platforms supporting clock management. (APPL_PINMUX.CLKREQ_OUT_OVERRIDE = 0) (APPL_PINMUX.CLKREQ_OUT_OVERRIDE_EN = 0)
- Or set the following sideband registers to enable reference clock output of each PCIe
controllers for platforms that do not support clock management. (APPL_PINMUX.CLKREQ_OUT_OVERRIDE = 1) (APPL_PINMUX.CLKREQ_OUT_OVERRIDE_EN = 1)
- Wait 100 µs
The PCIe driver enables LTSSM of PCIe controller through its APB Client. Set the following registers to enable LTSSM. (APPL_CTRL.APP_LTSSM_ENABLE = 1) The PCIe driver de-asserts RESET# to the PCIe fabric connecting to each PCIe controller through its APB Client. Set the following sideband registers to de-assert RESET# of each PCIe controllers.

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(APPL_PINMUX.PEX_RST_O_N = 1) The PCIe driver follows standard PCIe device discovery and enumeration procedure via depth first search to identify and setup all devices attach to the PCIe controllers and initialize their CFG registers.
##### 10.5.4.2.2 Endpoint
- PCIe driver change the Device ID and Class Code by programming the following configuration
registers: Set the following register to enable override of read only bits. (EP_PF0_PORT_LOGIC_MISC_CONTROL_1_OFF_0.DBI_RO_WR_EN = 1)
- Set the following register to change the Device ID of x4 and x8 controllers following
- DeviceID_master_list
(EP_PF0_TYPE0_HDR_DEVICE_ID_VENDOR_ID_REG_0.PCI_TYPE0_DEVICE_ID
- Set the following register to change the class code of x4 and x8 controllers following
- DeviceID_master_list
(PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_TYPE0_HDR_CLASS_CODE_REVISION_ID_0.BASE_CLASS_CODE (PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_TYPE0_HDR_CLASS_CODE_REVISION_ID_0.SUBCLASS_CODE (PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_TYPE0_HDR_CLASS_CODE_REVISION_ID_0.PROGRAM_INTERFACE Set the following register to set the memory BAR size of x4 and x8 controllers. The maximum size of the memory BAR is 32GB. (PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_TYPE0_HDR_CLASS_CODE_BAR0_MASK_REG_0 (PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_TYPE0_HDR_CLASS_CODE_BAR1_MASK_REG_0 Clear the following register to disable override of read only bits. (EP_PF0_PORT_LOGIC_MISC_CONTROL_1_OFF_0.DBI_RO_WR_EN = 0) PCIe driver enables LTSSM of PCIe controller through its APB Client. Set the following register to enable LTSSM. (APPL_CTRL.APP_LTSSM_ENABLE = 1) Device discovery and enumeration is performed by driver running on the PCIe root complex. PCIe driver waits the Interrupt informing device enumeration completion when the Memory Enable and Bus Master Enable bits in the PCI command configuration register are set.
- Set the following sideband registers to enable Interrupt reporting enable bits in Command
register status change. (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.SYS_INTR_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.PCI_CMD_EN_INT_EN = 1) PCIe driver programs the PCI and PCIe configuration registers of the Endpoint to their default values when RESET# is asserted.

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
#### 10.5.4.3 PCIe Controller Hot Reset
##### 10.5.4.3.1 Root Port
The PCIe driver checks if the link-down Reset is triggered by secondary bus Reset.
- Program the following APB Client register fields to identify link-down Reset is due to
secondary bus Reset. (APPL_INTR_STATUS_L1_0.LINK_REQ_RST_NOT_CHGED = 1) (APPL_INTR_STATUS_L1_0.SURPRISE_DOWN_ERR_STATE = 0) The PCIe driver handles secondary bus Reset by setting the Reset override to only toggle core Reset. Program the following APB Client register fields to assert core Reset. (PCIE_RP_CAR_RESET_OVRD_0.CYA_OVERRIDE_CORE_RST_N = 0) Program the following APB Client register fields to de-assert core Reset. (PCIE_RP_CAR_RESET_OVRD_0.CYA_OVERRIDE_CORE_RST_N = 1)
##### 10.5.4.3.2 Endpoint
The PCIe driver sets the following bit to trigger hot Reset: Program the following register fields to enable hot Reset. (APPL_CTRL.HW_HOT_RESET_MODE = 2’b01) (APPL_CTRL.HW_HOT_RESET_EN = 1)
#### 10.5.4.4 Interrupt and Message Handling
##### 10.5.4.4.1 Legacy Interrupts and Messages
- Root Port
The PCIe driver enables Interrupt generation for receiving legacy Interrupts, error messages, and PME messages for each PCIe Root Port controller through its APB Client. Program the following general message reception and Interrupt register fields to ‘1’ to enable Interrupt generation of each PCIe controllers. (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.SYS_INTR_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.LINK_STATE_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_0.SMLH_LINK_UP_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_0.LINK_REQ_RST_NOT_INT_EN = 1)

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(APPL_INTR_EN_L1_0.SMLH_REQ_RST_NOT_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_0.SURPRISE_DOWN_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.LTR_RCV_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.VEN_MSG_RCV_INT_EN) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.INT_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_8.CFG_PME_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_8.EDMA_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_8.INTX_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.PM_MSG_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_9.RADM_PM_PME_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_9.RADM_PM_TO_ACK_INT_EN = 1)
- Endpoint
The PCIe driver enables Interrupt generation for receiving PCIe messages for each PCIe Endpoint controller through its APB Client Program the following general message reception and Interrupt register fields to ‘1’ to enable Interrupt generation of each PCIe controllers. (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.SYS_INTR_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.LINK_STATE_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_0.SMLH_LINK_UP_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_0.LINK_REQ_RST_NOT_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_0.SMLH_REQ_RST_NOT_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.VEN_MSG_RCV_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_6.VEN_MSG_RCV_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.PM_MSG_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_9.RADM_PM_TURNOFF_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.UNLOCK_MSG_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_10.RADM_MSG_UNLOCK_INT_EN = 1)
##### 10.5.4.4.2 MSI (Message Signaled Interrupt)
- Root Port
The PCIe driver enables Interrupt generation of received MSI for each PCIe Root Port controller through its APB Client. Program the following MSI register field to ‘1’ to enable Interrupt generation of each PCIe controllers. (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.MSI_RCV_INT_EN = 1)

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
For platforms having MSI forwarded to GIC, the forwarded MSI must be initialized in the following sequence. The Boot firmware sets up both Internal and external MSI address.
- Internal MSI address = MSI_BASE
- External MSI address = GIC_BASE + GICA_SETSPI
- When the SMMU is enabled, the Boot firmware also sets up the (MSI Base Stream ID =
0x7F) to ensure the encoded MSI packets bypasses SMMU. -
- IOMMU region with IOMMU_RESV_MSI type is reserved with (Physical Address =
GIC_BASE + GIC_SET_SPI).
- Similar step as HISILICON is required to use IORT table to reserve the IOMMU_RESV_MSI
region. -
- The TZ-protected registers have dependency on the PCIe power and Reset states. Thus
SMC call is needed to program them dynamically in the Boot firmware.
- The Boot firmware passes “GIC_BASE” as MSI Base Address in the acpi_madt table, where
the GIC (IOB) v2m driver parses “GIC_BASE” from the acpi_madt table SCF decodes MSI address and data, and targets WRITE to GIC_SETSPI with MSI data.
- The Boot Firmware sets up PCIe devices with (MSI address = GIC_BASE + GICA_SETSPI),
where the IO virtual address equals to the physical address regardless whether SMMU is enabled or disabled.
##### 10.5.4.4.3 Error Reporting
The PCIe driver always enables PCIe AER as defined in PCIe specification. The PCIe driver also enables the PCIe configuration register checking when register protection is required.
- Root Port
The PCIe driver enables Interrupt and fault generation for received error messages and errors detected by each PCIe Root Port controller through its APB Client.
- Program the following Interrupt register fields to ‘1’ to enable Interrupt generation for
detected errors of each PCIe controllers. (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.ERROR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_1.CFG_SYS_ERR_RC_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_1.RADM_CORRECTABLE_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_1.RADM_NONFATAL_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_1.RADM_FATAL_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.INT_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_8.CFG_AER_RC_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.RASDP_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_12.MSTR_RASDP_ERR_MODE_INT_EN = 1)

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(APPL_INTR_EN_L1_12.SLV_RASDP_ERR_MODE_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.CPL_TIMEOUT_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.PARITY_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.CDM_REG_CHK_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_CMP_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_LOGIC_ERR_INT_EN = 1) Alternatively, program the following fault register fields to ‘1’ to enable fault generation for detected errors of each PCIe controllers. (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.ERROR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_1.CFG_SYS_ERR_RC_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_1.RADM_CORRECTABLE_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_1.RADM_NONFATAL_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_1.RADM_FATAL_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.INT_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_8.CFG_AER_RC_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.RASDP_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_12.MSTR_RASDP_ERR_MODE_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_12.SLV_RASDP_ERR_MODE_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.CPL_TIMEOUT_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.PARITY_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.CDM_REG_CHK_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_CMP_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_LOGIC_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1)
- Endpoint
The PCIe driver always enables PCIe AER. PCIe driver enables Interrupt and fault generation for errors detected by each PCIe Endpoint controller through its APB Client.
- Program the following Interrupt register fields to ‘1’ to enable Interrupt generation for
detected errors of each PCIe controllers. (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.ERROR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_1.CFG_SYS_ERR_RC_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.RASDP_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_12.MSTR_RASDP_ERR_MODE_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_12.SLV_RASDP_ERR_MODE_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.CPL_TIMEOUT_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.PARITY_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L0.CDM_REG_CHK_INT_EN = 1)

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(APPL_INTR_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_CMP_ERR_INT_EN = 1) (APPL_INTR_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_LOGIC_ERR_INT_EN = 1) Alternatively, program the following fault register fields to ‘1’ to enable fault generation for detected errors of each PCIe controllers. (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.ERROR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_1.CFG_SYS_ERR_RC_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.RASDP_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_12.MSTR_RASDP_ERR_MODE_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_12.SLV_RASDP_ERR_MODE_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.CPL_TIMEOUT_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.PARITY_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L0.CDM_REG_CHK_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_CMP_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1) (APPL_FAULT_EN_L1_18.CDM_REG_CHK_LOGIC_ERR_FAULT_EN = 1)
#### 10.5.4.5 PCIe Hierarchy Enumeration
Following PCI/PCIe specification, the PCIe hierarchy enumeration is performed via depth first search to discover all devices attach to the PCIe controllers and initialize their CFG registers. The following register fields must be set to enable PCIe to forward DMA requests and accept MMIO and IOIO requests from CPU. For each PCIe controller: (T_PCIE2_RP_DEV_CTRL.BUS_MASTER = 1). (T_PCIE2_RP_DEV_CTRL.MEMORY_SPACE = 1). (T_PCIE2_RP_DEV_CTRL.IO_SPACE = 1). The configuration register space of the PCIe hierarchy below each PCIe Root Port is accesses by using the AFI address mapping to convert the Orin MMIO addresses to PCIe configuration addresses. The following PCIe registers must be programmed accordingly for access configuration register spaces below the Root Ports. For each PCIe controller: T_PCIE2_RP_BN_LT.SEC_BUS_NUMBER T_PCIE2_RP_BN_LT.SUB_BUS_NUMBER The IOIO register space of the PCIe hierarchy below each PCIe Root Port is accesses by using the AFI address mapping to convert the Orin MMIO addresses to PCIe IOIO addresses. The following PCIe registers must be programmed accordingly for access IOIO register spaces below the Root Ports. For each PCIe controller: T_PCIE2_RP_IO_BL_SS.T_PCIE2_RP_IO_BL_SSIO_BASE T_PCIE2_RP_IO_BL_SS.IO_LIMIT

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
The IOIO register space of the PCIe hierarchy below each PCIe Root Port is accesses by using the
- AFI address mapping to shift the Orin MMIO addresses to PCIe MMIO addresses. The following
PCIe registers must be programmed accordingly for access MMIO register spaces below the Root Ports. For each PCIe controller: T_PCIE2_RP_MEM_BL.MEM_BASE T_PCIE2_RP_MEM_BL.MEM_LIMIT T_PCIE2_RP_PRE_BL.PREFETCH_MEM_BASE T_PCIE2_RP_PRE_BL.PREFETCH_MEM_LIMIT
#### 10.5.4.6 Partition Power-Gating
The PCIe controllers are grouped in different power partitions. A PCIe conroller can only be put to power-gating, when the PCIe link of all the controllers in the same power partition are not connected, disabled, or in L2/3 link state. In the case of PCIe link in disabled or L2/3 link states, toggling of RESET# is required to bring the link back to L0, when the is re-enumerated. Thus, instead of context save and restore, the PCIe driver is required to reinitialize the PCIe controller and the PCIe fabric (i.e. all th PCIe controllers and their external connected switches and devices).
##### 10.5.4.6.1 Power Partitions
The 11 PCIe controllers are placed into nine power partitions: PCIEX4BA: PCIe Controller C0 x4. PCIEX1A: PCIe Controller C1 x1. PCIe Controller C2 x1. PCIe Controller C3 x1. System backbone interconnects for C0, C1, C2, C3, and C4. PCIEX4BB: PCIe Controller C4 x4. PCIEX8A: PCIe Controller C5 x8. System backbone interconnects for C4 and C4. PCIEX4A: PCIe Controller C6 x4. PCIEX8B:

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
PCIe Controller C7 x8. System backbone interconnects for C7, C8, C9, and C10. PCIEX4CA: PCIe Controller C8 x4. PCIEX4CB: PCIe Controller C9 x4. PCIEX4CC: PCIe Controller C10 x4.
- Among them,
- PCIEX4A, PCIEX4BA, PCIEX4BB, PCIEX4CA, PCIEX4CB and PCIEX4C can be power-gated when
the sole PCIe controller in the partition has its link in either L2 or disabled link power state.
- PCIEX1A can only be power-gated when both PCIEX4BA and PCIEX4BB are already power-
gated and PCIe C1/C2/C3 all have their links in either L2 or disabled link power state. PCIEX1A must be powered first before PCIEX4BA and/or PCIEX4BB can be brought out of power-gating.
- PCIEX8A can only be power-gated when PCIEX4A is already power-gated and PCIe C5 has its
link in either L2 or disabled link power state. PCIEX8A must be powered first before PCIEX4A can be brought out of power-gating.
- PCIEX8B can only be power-gated when all PCIEX4CA, PCIEX4CB, and PCIEX4CC are already
power-gated and PCIe C7 has its link in either L2 or disabled link power state. PCIEX8B must be powered first before PCIEX4CA, PCIEX4CB and/or PCIEX4CC can be brought out of power- gating.
##### 10.5.4.6.2 Power-Gating Entry
The PCIe driver enables PE_WAKE# as an Interrupt source to signal wake event from PCIe devices for all PCIe Root Ports. Enable the Interrupt event through the GPIO registers.
- Refer to the GPIO Output/Bidirectional Configuration section of the GPIO Controllers
chapter for the programming steps with <Port No> = L and <N> = 02. The PCIe driver puts the active link to L2 for each PCIe controller in Root Port mode. For PCIe controllers in Endpoint mode, the link must be put to L2 by the Root Port before they can be power-gated.
- Program the Power Management State register of all connected PCIe devices to put them to
D3 state. (PCIE_X<i>_RC_PF0_PM_CAP_CON_STATUS_REG_0.POWER_STATE = 3), where <i> = 1, 4, 8.

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
- Program the PM register of the APB Client registers to trigger the generation of
PME_Turn_Off message. (PCIE_RP_APPL_RADM_STATUS0_0.APPS_PM_XMT_TURNOFF_STATE = 1).
- Wait 10 ms, or check the PM register of the APB Client registers to ensure receipt of
PME_TO_ACK message. (PCIE_RP_APPL_INTR_STATUS_L1_9_0.RADM_PM_TO_ACK_STATE == 1). Wait 20 µs after the link is in L2 then check the following field of the APB Client register is set to ensure UPHY is properly powered down. (PCIE_RP_APPL_DEBUG_0.PM_LINKST_IN_L2_LAT == 1). Set the following fields of the APB Client registers to ‘1’ to allow reference clock PLL to be powered down. (PCIE_RP_APPL_PINMUX_0.CLKREQ_OVERRIDE_EN = 1). (PCIE_RP_APPL_PINMUX_0.CLKREQ_OVERRIDE = 1). The PCIe driver checks the link has entered L2, then forces UPHY to low power state using softare verrides. Check the following field of the APB Client registers to confirm the link has entered L2. (PCIE_RP_APPL_DEBUG_0.PM_LINKST_IN_L2_LAT == 1). The System Power Management driver flushes all the PCIe controllers in each PCIe power partition and their associated MCCIF (Memory Controller Connect InterFace). Set the following MC register fields to ‘1’ to enable flush of PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE0A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE0A2_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following fields for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE0A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE0A2_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). Set the following MC register fields to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C1, C2, and C3 in PCIEX1A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE2A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE3_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE3A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following fields for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C1, C2, and C3 in PCIEX1A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE2A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE3_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE3A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following MC register field to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE4A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following field for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE4A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). Set the following MC register field to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE5A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following field for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE5A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). Set the following MC register field to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE6A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following field for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0.PCIE6A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). Set the following MC register field to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE7A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following field for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0.PCIE7A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). Set the following MC register field to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE8A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following field for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0.PCIE8A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). Set the following MC register field to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE9A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following field for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0.PCIE9A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). Set the following MC register field to ‘1’ to enable flush for PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE10A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 1). Poll the following field for ‘1’ to ensure flushes are completed for PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0.PCIE10A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 1). NOTE: For details of the MC registers, please refer to the Memory SubSystem (MSS) chapter. The System Power Management driver enables clamps of all the PCIe power partitions. Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX4BA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX1A. PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX4BB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). Set the following PMC register field to ‘1’ to enable clamps for PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4C_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 1). NOTE:
- For details of the PMC registers, please refer to the Power management Controller (PMC)
chapter. The System Power Management driver Wait 200 ns. The System Power Management driver asserts Reset to PCIe then disables clocks for all the PCIe power partitions. Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_0_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_0_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C1, C2, and C3 in PCIEX1A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_1_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_1_APB_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_2_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_2_APB_RST = 1).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_3_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_3_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C1, C2, and C3 in PCIEX1A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_1 = 1). CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_2 = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_3 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_4_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_4_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_4 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_5_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_5_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX1_CORE_5 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_6_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_6_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX1_CORE_6 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIE C7 in PCIEX8B. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_7_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_7_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_7 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_8_RST = 1).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_8_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_8 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_9_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_9_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_9 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to assert Reset to PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_10_RST = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_10_APB_RST = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset)register field to ‘1’ to disable the clocks to PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_10 = 1). NOTE:
- For details of the CAR registers, please refer to the Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)
chapter. The System Power Management driver removes power to all the PCIe power partitions. Set the following PMC register fields to power-gate PCIEX4BA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is disabled for
PCIEX4BA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4BB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON). Set the following PMC register fields to power-gate PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is disabled for
PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON). Set the following PMC register fields to power-gate PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is disabled for
PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON). Set the following PMC register fields to power-gate PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is disabled for
PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON). Set the following PMC register fields to power-gate PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is disabled for
PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON). Set the following PMC register fields to power-gate PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1)’.
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is disabled for
PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following PMC register fields to power-gate PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.INTER_PART_DELAY_EN =
- ENABLE)
(PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is disabled for
PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON). NOTE:
- For details of the PMC registers, please refer to the Power management Controller (PMC)
chapter.
##### 10.5.4.6.3 Power-Gating Exit
The System Power Management driver restores power to all the PCIe power partitions. Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX4BA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX4BA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4BA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX1A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX1A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX1A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX4BB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX4BB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4BB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). Set the following PMC register fields to ungate power to PCIe power partition PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_SLEEP_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_EN = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START = 1).
- Poll the following PMC register field to become ‘0’ to ensure power rail is enabled for
PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.START == 0).
- Read the following PMC register fields to confirm the power-gating status of partition
PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0.SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.SRAM_RET_STS == OFF). (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0.LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF). NOTE:
- For details of the PMC registers, please refer to the Power management Controller (PMC)
chapter. The System Power Management driver enables clocks to all the PCIe power partitions. Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C1, C2, and C3 in PCIEX1A.

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
(CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_1 = 1). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_2 = 1) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_3 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX0_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX0_CORE_4 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX1_CORE_5 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX1_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX1_CORE_6 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX2_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_7 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX2_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_8 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX2_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_9 = 1). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘1’ to enable the clocks to PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_PEX2_CORE_0.CLK_ENB_PEX2_CORE_10 = 1). NOTE:
- For details of the CAR registers, please refer to the Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)
chapter. The System Power Management driver waits 2 µs. The System Power Management driver removes clamps of all the PCIe power partitions. Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX4BA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BA_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX1A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX1A_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX4BB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4BB_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX8A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8A_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX4A. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4A_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX8B. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX8B_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX4CA. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CA_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX4CB. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CB_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). Set the following PMC register field to ‘0’ to disable clamps of PCIEX4CC. (PMC_IMPL_PART_PCIEX4CC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = 0). NOTE:
- For details of the PMC registers, please refer to the Power management Controller (PMC)
chapter. The System Power Management driver waits 2 µs. The System Power Management driver de-asserts Reset to APB Client of each PCIe controller. Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_0_APB_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C1, C2, and C3 in PCIEX1A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_1_APB_RST = 0). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_2_APB_RST = 0). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_3_APB_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_4_APB_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_5_APB_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_6_APB_RST = 0).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_7_APB_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_8_APB_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB clients of PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_9_APB_RST = 0).
- Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset)register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to the APB
clients of PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_10_APB_RST = 0). NOTE:
- For details of the CAR registers, please refer to the Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)
chapter. The PCIe driver sets up PCIe controller configurations following the programming sequences in the PCIe Controller Setup section. The System Power Management driver de-asserts Reset to PCIe controller. Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_0_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register fields to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C1, C2, and C3 in PCIEX1A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_1_RST = 0). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_2_RST = 0). (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_3_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX0_CORE_0.SWR_PEX0_CORE_4_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_5_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX1_CORE_0.SWR_PEX1_CORE_6_RST = 0).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_7_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_8_RST = 0). Set the following CAR (Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_9_RST = 0). Set the following CAR(Clock and Reset) register field to ‘0’ to de-assert Reset to PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_PEX2_CORE_0.SWR_PEX2_CORE_10_RST = 0). NOTE:
- For details of the CAR registers, please refer to the Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)
chapter. The System Power Management driver waits 1 µs. The System Power Management driver disables the flush of all the PCIe controllers in each PCIe power partition and their associated MCCIF (Memory Controler Connect InterFace). Set the following MC register fields to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIe C0 in PCIEX4BA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE0A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE0A2_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following fields for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for C0 in PCIEX4BA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE0A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE0A2_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). Set the following MC register fields to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIe C1, C2, C3 in PCIEX1A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE2A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE3_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE3A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0).
- Poll the following fields for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C1, C2, C3
in PCIEX1A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE2A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE3_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE3A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0).

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
Set the following MC register field to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIE C4 in PCIEX4BB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE4A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following field for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C4 in PCIEX4BB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE4A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). Set the following MC register field to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0.PCIE5A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following field for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C5 in PCIEX8A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE5A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). Set the following MC register field to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE6A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following field for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C6 in PCIEX4A. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE6A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). Set the following MC register field to ‘0’ to disable flush oc PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE7A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following field for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C7 in PCIEX8B. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE7A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). Set the following MC register field to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE8A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following field for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C8 in PCIEX4CA. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE8_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). Set the following MC register field to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE9A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following field for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C9 in PCIEX4CB. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE9A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). Set the following MC register field to ‘0’ to disable flush of PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0.PCIE10A_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0). Poll the following field for '0' to ensure flush disable completed for PCIe C10 in PCIEX4CC. (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0.PCIE10A_HOTRESET_STATUS == 0). NOTE: For details of the MC registers, please refer to the Memory SubSystem (MSS) chapter.

- PCI Express (PCIe) Controller
#### 10.5.4.7 SC7
All the PCIe power partition must be put to partition power-gating before the system can enter SC7. The PCIe partition can either be brought out of power-gating once the system exits SC7 or kept under power-gating until the connected devices signal a wake event. Assertion of PE_WAKE# must be set as an SC7 wake event for all PCIe Root Ports controllers. The PCIe driver enables PE_WAKE# as a wake event before the system enters SC7.
- Set the LEVEL filed of the particular PMC WAKE register corresponding to the WAKE event to
'0' to set the wake signal active level to 'LOW'. (WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_1.LEVEL = 0).
- Set the MASK field of the particular PMC WAKE register corresponding to the WAKE event to
'1' to enable PCIe wake events. (WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_1.MASK = 1). The PCIe driver disables PE_WAKE# as a wake event after the system exits SC7.
- Set the MASK field of the particular PMC WAKE register corresponding to the WAKE event to
'0' to disable PCIe wake events. (WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_1.MASK = 0). Assertion of RESET# must be set as an SC7 wake event for the PCIe Endpoint controller connected to a PCIe Root Port. ThePCIe driver enables the Endpoint Reset GPIO as a wake event before the system enters SC7. Set the LEVEL field of the software-identified platform-specific PMC wake register to '0' to set the wake signal active level to 'LOW'. WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_<i>.LEVEL = 0), where <i> = 0, 1, ..., 95. Set the MASK field of the software-identified platform-specific PMC wake register to '1' to enable PCIe Endpoint Reset events. WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_<i>.MASK = 1), where <i> = 0, 1, ..., 95. Th PCIe driver disables the Endpoint Reset GPIO as a wake event after the system exits SC7. Set the MASK field of the software-identified platform-specific PMC wake register to '0' to disable PCIe Endpoint Reset events. WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_<i>.MASK = 0), where <i> = 0, 1, ..., 95. NOTE:
- Each GPIO pin capable of generating wake event is assigned with a fixed number as a wake
source. Some GPIO pins have fixed assignment such as PE_WAKE# for PCIes. Meanwhile, some other GPIO pins without pre-defined functions are reserved to allow platform implementations as needed. RESET# takes advantage of the platform implementation

- PCIe Registers
flexibility, since RESET# as input is not required by all platform implementations but only those with PCIe Endpoint controller enabled.
- PE_WAKE# is used by all PCIe Root Ports for connected devices to signal wake when the
system is in SC7. This is a fixed function that is supported by all platforms.
- RESET# as a wake source is only used by platforms with enabled PCIe Endpoint. This is
optional and different from PE_WAKE#, since in additional to signaling wake from the connected external Root Port, it’s also used by that Root Port to reset the Endpoint.
- Actual GPIO pin/PMC register for wake is based on platform GPIO designation, hence,
platform-specific PMC wake register.
- For details of the WAKE_AOWAKE_* registers, please refer to the "PMC Wake Registers" in
the PMC chapter.
#### 10.5.4.8 Fault Handling
For PCIe controller in Root Port mode that reports fault occurrence, software needs to read the error statuses in APB Client to get information of the type of error. To recover from the fault, software needs to reset the PCIe controller through CAR register programming, followed by reinitializing the PCIe fabric. For PCIe controller in Endpoint mode that reports fault occurrence, software needs to read the error statuses in APB Client to get information of the type of error. To recover from the fault, software needs to reset the PCIe controller through CAR register programming, which causes the link to be disconnected and reported as Surprise Down error by the link partner.
#### 10.5.4.9 Shutdown and Reboot
Before system shutdown or reboot, the PCIe driver needs to put all PCIe links to Disabled state, followed by asserting RESET# of all Root Ports then reset UPHY, to ensure PCIe devices and UPHY are in proper states before power rails are toggled. To avoid power surge when numerous logic are powering down at the same time, it is recommended that thePCIe driver also puts all the PCIe partitions into power-gating prior to shutdown or reboot.

