# 10.6.3 1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines

@{Key=10.6.3; Title=1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 10.6.3.1 Virtualization Programming Guidelines
The Virtualization register programming is the first step before exercising any other feature of the ETHER_QOS IP.
##### 10.6.3.1.1 Address Range
ETHER_QOS has 10x64KB of address space allocated consecutively. ETHER_QOS_HV address space is allocated to HV. ETHER_QOS_RM address space is allocated to RM.
- Any CPU that accesses ETHER_QOS through the ETHER_QOS_RM (64KB) address space is treated
as RM.
- ETHER_QOS Sub Apertures
- Reserved/
- In use
- Offset from Base Addr
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_EQOS_BASE
- ETHER_MAC_HV
- In use
0x00000
- ETHER_MAC_RM
- In use
0x10000
- ETHER_MAC_VM0
- In use
0x20000
- ETHER_MAC_VM1
- In use
0x30000
- ETHER_MAC_VM2
- In use
0x40000
- ETHER_MAC_VM3
- In use
0x50000
- ETHER_MAC_VM4
- Reserved
0x60000
- ETHER_MAC_VM5
(Used to access only PTP registers)
- In use
0x70000

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- ETHER_QOS Sub Apertures
- Reserved/
- In use
- Offset from Base Addr
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_EQOS_BASE
- ETHER_MAC_VM6
- Reserved
0x80000
- ETHER_MAC_VM7
- Reserved
0x90000
##### 10.6.3.1.2 Registers Access Control
RM is a trusted software and has unrestricted access for write and read of both core and wrapper registers other than HV page registers.
- For Guest OSes
Core registers:
- Read access is provided for all registers except the unassigned DMA channel registers and
Read_to_Clear (RC) registers.
- Write access is provided to only the DMA channel registers that are allocated for that
particular Guest OS Wrapper registers:
- Write and Read access is only provided to the respective ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx
registers that RM configures.
##### 10.6.3.1.3 Allocation of Channels (CHx)
1GMAC has eight CHx that support both Write (write to Ethernet network) and Read (read from Ethernet network) capability. A single CHx should be allocated to, at most, one Guest OS by RM. Note: Half-duplex mode only CH0 can be used on Tx Side. On the Rx side, multiple queues and channels can be enabled.
- The Hypervisor can allocate ownership of DMA channels to Guest OSes by programming the
VIRTUAL_APB_CHx_DMA_CTRL registers.
##### 10.6.3.1.4 Illegal Registers Access
The ETHER_QOS IP generates an error signal if there is an illegal register access. If a Guest OS tries to access the CHx registers that is assigned to other Guest OSes, then it is treated as a security issue and hence these are treated as errors. The slave error is generated when the corresponding guest OS control bit is enabled in VIRTUAL_APB_ERR_CTRL, which RM can only access. During illegal register access, all writes to registers are dropped and all register reads are masked by returning the value zero.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.1.5 Assigning Address Stream ID for all channels on AXI/Memory Interface
Through VIRTUAL_AXI_ASIDx_CTRL register programming, only the Hypervisor can assign different address stream IDs for different channels.
#### 10.6.3.2 Guidelines to Access PTP Registers from VMs
- PTP Registers are from offset 0xb00 to 0xbff. Any VM can read these registers through
ETHER_QOS VM5 AMAP page. All VMs, which require PTP register read access, can issue the read transactions with the base address: NV_ADDRESS_MAP_EQOS_MAC_VM5_BASE. Hardware issues a slave error for any other read or write transactions to ETHER_QOS VM5 AMAP page.
#### 10.6.3.3 Guidelines for Handling ETHER_QOS_VM[i]_interrupt by Guest
- OS
1. RM sets up DMA to VM mapping by programming the following registers:
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_APB_CHx_DMA_CTRL_0
- TX and RX DMA channel interrupts capture is enabled by programming the following
registers.
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx_CTRL_0
DMA channel interrupts are captured in per channel interrupt status registers.
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx_STATUS_0
Interrupts for all DMA channels are also captured in the following global register as Read only bits.
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_DMA_GLOBAL_STATUS_0
- Tx and Rx DMA channel interrupts are mapped to eqos_vm_intr [3:0] based on the DMA
Channel to VM-mapping registers. When VM receives interrupt, it should carry out the following operation: 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. a. b.
- Read ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_DMA_GLOBAL_STATUS_0
- Handle the interrupt in the 1GMAC core logic as per the “Interrupts” in the following
section.
- Clear interrupt by writing to the corresponding interrupt bits
in ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx_STATUS_0 c. i. Clearing of channel interrupt status clears the corresponding bit in global status register too.
##### 10.6.3.3.1 Interrupts
Interrupts can be generated as a result of various events in the DWC_ether_qos controller. These events are captured in status registers. Interrupt enables are provided for each source of an interrupt such that the interrupt signal (sbd_intr_o) is asserted for an event only when the corresponding interrupt enable is set. In EQOS-AXI configuration, the interrupt status and

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines corresponding enable registers are organized in a hierarchical manner so that it is easier for software to traverse and identify the source of an interrupt event quickly. When sbd_intr_o is asserted, the DMA_Interrupt_Status register is the first level that indicates the major blocks for the interrupt event source. This register is read-only, and it contains bits corresponding to each DMA channel (TX and RX pair), the MTL, and the MAC. The software application must then read one (or more) of the following registers corresponding to the bits that are set:
- MAC_Interrupt_Status register
- MTL_Interrupt_Status register
- DMA_CH(#i)_Status (for i = 0; i <= DWC_EQOS_NUM_DMA_TX_CH-1) register
#### 10.6.3.4 Guidelines for Handling EQOS_common_intr
1.
- Read EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register to know the root cause of the interrupt. It can
be any of the following:
- Correctable error from 1GMAC Core
- Uncorrectable error from 1GMAC Core
- SBD Interrupt from 1GMAC Core
- LPI Interrupt from 1GMAC Core
- PMT Interrupt from 1GMAC Core
- Register Parity Error from ETHER_QOS Wrapper Registers
2.
- Read ETHER_QOS_COMMON_INTR_ENABLE_0 register to know which of the preceding
errors are propagated on the common interrupt line. If the interrupt is due to: 3. a.
- SBD interrupt from 1GMAC Core
i. Refer to the “Interrupts” section above. Write 1 to clear SBD Intr status in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register. ii. b.
- LPI interrupt or PMT interrupt from 1GMAC Core
i. Refer to the "LPI Interrupt" in the following section. Write 1 to clear the corresponding status in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register. ii. c.
- Register Parity Error from ETHER_QOS Wrapper Registers
i. This error occurs when the last read register value has some corrupt data. Error recovery can be done in either of the following ways: ii. a.
- Writing into that register again, clear the status in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS
register and checking if the parity error goes away.
- Resetting the IP
b. d.
- Correctable error or uncorrectable error from 1GMAC Core
i. Refer to the "Interrupt for Parity Error" the following section. Write 1 to clear the corresponding bits in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register. ii.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.4.1 Interrupt for Parity Error
- DWC_ether_qos generates an uncorrectable interrupt, sbd_sfty_ue_intr_o to indicate to the
application if any parity error is detected. Appropriate status is indicated in DMA/ MTL_Safety_Interrupt_Status and MAC_DPP_FSM_Interrupt_Status registers. All the parity errors reported by the different checkers are logged in the MAC_DPP_FSM_Interrupt_Status register. Note: A parity error is uncorrectable, and in most cases the operation of the DWC_ether_qos is not guaranteed after a parity error. A software reset (for DMA and higher configurations) or a hardware reset (for MTL configuration) is required to recover safely from the parity error reported by the assertion of sbd_sfty_ue_intr_o signal.
##### 10.6.3.4.2 LPI Interrupt
The MAC generates the LPI interrupt when the Tx or Rx side enters or exits the LPI state. The interrupt mci_intr_o (sbd_intr_o in EQOS-DMA configurations) is asserted when the LPI interrupt status is set. The LPI interrupt can be cleared by reading the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register. When the MAC exits the Rx Low Power Interrupt (LPI) state, then in addition to the mci_intr_o (sbd_intr_o in EQOS-DMA configurations), the sideband signal lpi_intr_o (synchronous to Rx clock) is asserted. You can use the lpi_intr_o signal to trigger the external clock-gating circuitry to restore the application clock to the MAC. The lpi_intr_o signal, synchronous to the Rx clock domain, is provided so that you can stop the application clock when the MAC is in the LPI state. If you do not want to gate-off the application clock during the Rx LPI state, you can leave the lpi_intr_o signal unconnected. Then, use the mci_intr_o (sbd_intr_o in EQOSDMA configurations) signal to detect Rx LPI exit. The lpi_intr_o signal is generated in the Rx clock domain. It may not be cleared immediately after the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register is read. This is because the clear signal, generated in CSR clock domain, has to cross the Rx clock domain, and then clear the interrupt source. This delay is at least four clock cycles of Rx clock and can be significant when the DWC_ether_qos is operating in the 10Mbps mode.
#### 10.6.3.5 Access Lock for DCRCC, RSF, and FEP in 1GMAC
At the receive side, packets, which violate MACsec security protocol are corrupted and sent to MAC with incorrect CRC. MAC must drop all such packets. But 1GMAC has the following configuration bits with which even incorrect CRC Packets can be taken into the system.
- MAC_Ext_Configuration.DCRCC ;; Disables CRC check
- MTL_RxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode.RSF ;;Queue is in cut-through mode and [ i = {0,1,2,…9}
- Receive queue number]
- MTL_RxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode.FEP ;; Forward error packets and [ i = {0,1,2,…9} =
- Receive queue number]

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- Therefore, software access must block the register configuration bitsto ensure that MACSEC
rejected packets are dropped in MAC. It is implemented using the Lock control bits in MACSEC TZ space as shown in the below diagram.
- MACSEC_MAC_CONTROL_0.DCRCC_LOCK = 1
access control bit in MACSEC
- MACSEC_MAC_CONTROL_0.RxQ_FEP_LOCK = 1
access control bit in MACSEC for all 10 queues
- MACSEC_MAC_CONTROL_0.RSF_LOCL = 1
access control bit in MACSEC for all 10 queues. The default value for Locks is “1." During normal operation, Trusted software (TZ entity) can remove the Lock, update the value of DCRC, FEP, and RSF to their secure state and apply the Lock. After Lock is applied, normal ETHER_QOS driver cannot update these values from normal world.
**Figure 10.40 Blocking the access to CRC Configuration bits in XGMAC**
The Lock Control bits are available only in TZ when TZ is active based on macsec_hw_tz_check fuse.
- During the bring-up phase, when the fuse is not blown, RM can access these LOCK bits and
program them to “0”. Then the RM updates the value of DCRC, FEP, and RSF bits to their desired value. When the macsec_hw_tz_check fuse is blown, the TZ software only can set or reset these Lock bits.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
#### 10.6.3.6 DMA Channel Recovery Programming Guidelines
Steps to recover a DMA channel in an error condition (By reading DMA_CH(#i)_Status register) without affecting other channels. RM carries out the recovery steps.
- Tx Recovery
1. Stop the TX DMA (even when it is active state). Flush the corresponding MTL queue. Reprogram the DMA channel-specific registers. Start the DMA channel. a. b. c. d.
- Rx Recovery
2. Stop the RX DMA. Set the RPF bit so that all packets get flushed one after another (this would lead to packet drops for that queue). Reprogram the DMA channel-specific registers. Start the DMA channel. a. b. c. d.
#### 10.6.3.7 DMA/Queue Dynamic Change of Arbitration Rules
- MTL Transmit Queues Arbitration
“MTL_Operation_Mode.SCHALG” register field sets the Tx scheduling algorithm scheme. This value can be dynamically changed without any packet corruption.
- MTL Receive Queues Arbitration
“MTL_Operation_Mode.RAA” register field sets the Rx scheduling algorithm scheme. This value can be dynamically changed without any packet corruption.
- Transmit DMA channels Arbitration
“DMA_Mode.TAA” register field is used to select the arbitration scheme for transmit side when multiple TX DMA channels are enabled. This field can be changed dynamically.
#### 10.6.3.8 Golden Register Settings
The recommended values of some of the golden registers are shown.
- Table 10.16 Golden Register settings
- Register
- Field
- Value
- Comments
- DMA_Mode
- TXPR
- When 0, this bit indicates that RX DMA has higher
priority over TX DMA during arbitration for system memory access.
- DMA_Mode
- PR
- The priority ratio is 1:1 WRR between RX and TX DMA
arbitration requests.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.8.1 Route Safety interrupt to LIC as common interrupt
The safety interrupts can be routed to the Ethernet software driver when the following bits are programmed:
- COMMON_INTR_MASK.EQOS_CORE_CORRECTABLE_ERR = 1
- COMMON_INTR_MASK.EQOS_CORE_UNCORRECTABLE_ERR = 1
#### 10.6.3.9 Programming Guidelines to Operate 1GMAC in Loop-back Mode
- For Internal loop-back mode, software has to configure ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0. RX_CLK_SEL
register bit to 1 (LOOPBACK), with which Tx Clock is fed to RX domain in the CAR module. Disable the SLCG by programming ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0. ETHER_QOS_CLK_OVR_ON bit to 1.
#### 10.6.3.10 Programming Guidelines for Energy-Efficient Ethernet
- The following register should be programmed in ETHER_QOS_Wrapper to enable clock gating
needed for EEE functionality.
- ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0. ETHER_QOS_CLK_OVR_ON=0
During the DWC_ether_qos initialization, after you enable the (EEE) you can program how to enter and exit Tx LPI mode:
##### 10.6.3.10.1 Entering and Exiting the Tx LPI Mode
EEE enables the IEEE 802.3 Media Access Control (MAC) sub layer along with a family of Physical layers to operate in the Low-Power Idle (LPI) mode. In the Transmit path, the software must set the LPIEN bit of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to indicate to the MAC to stop transmission and initiate the LPI protocol. You can configure the (EEE) feature in coreConsultant while initializing the controller. Follow these steps while initializing DWC_ether_qos: 1.
- Read the PHY register through the MDIO interface, check if the remote end has the EEE
capability, and then negotiate the timer values.
- Program the PHY registers through the MDIO interface (including the RX_CLK_stoppable bit
that indicates to the PHY whether to stop Rx clock in LPI mode.) Program Bits[25:16] and Bits[15:0] in MAC_LPI_Timers_Control register.
- Read the link status of the PHY chip by using the MDIO interface and update Bit 17 of
- MAC_LPI_Control_Status accordingly. This update should be done whenever the link status in
the PHY chip changes.
- Program the MAC_1US_Tic_Counter as per the frequency of the clock used for accessing the
CSR slave port. 2. 3. 4. 5.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines 6.
- Program the MAC_LPI_Entry_Timer register (LPIET) with the IDLE time for which the MAC
should wait before entering the LPI state on its own.
- Set LPITE and LPITXA (bit[20:19]) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to enable the auto-
entry into LPI and auto-exit of MAC from LPI state.
- Program the MAC_1US_Tic_Counter as per the frequency of the clock used for accessing the
CSR slave port.
- Program the MAC_LPI_Entry_Timer register (LPIET) with the IDLE time for which the MAC
should wait before entering the LPI state on its own.
- Set LPITE and LPITXA (bit[20:19]) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to enable the auto-
entry into LPI and auto-exit of MAC from LPI state.
- Set Bit 16 of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to make the MAC Transmitter enter the LPI
state. The MAC enters the LPI mode after completing all scheduled packets and remains IDLE for the time indicated by LPIET. It sets the TLPIEN (bit[0]) after entry to LPI state.
- When a packet is scheduled for transmission (when the TxDMA comes out of IDLE state or
when a packet is presented at ATI or MTI interface), the MAC Transmitter exits LPI state automatically. It waits for TWT time before setting the TLPIEX interrupt status bit and then resume the packet transmission. MAC Transmitter reenters LPI state if it remains IDLE for LPIET time and sets the TLPIEN bit and the entry-exit cycle continues. Reset LPITXEN if the application wants to override the auto-entry/exit modes and it wants to make the MAC Transmitter exit the LPI state directly. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. Notes: 1.
- To ensure that MAC enter the LPI state only after completion of transmission of all the
queued frames in the Tx FIFO, you should set Bit 19 in MAC_LPI_Control_Status register.
- To turn off the GMII Transmit Clock during the LPI state, use the sbd_tx_clk_gating_ctrl_o
signal for gating the clock input. 2.
- Table 10.17 Recommended Settings for Performance
- Settings
- Value
- Comments
- PBLx8
Enable eight times PBL mode.
- Each beat is 16 bytes. Multiple by 8 will make it 128
bytes.
- RxPBL
Configure RX PBL to 1 KB.
- TxPBL
Configure TX PBL to 1 KB.
- IPBL
Disable Ignore PBL configuration.
- TSF
- All the transmit queues should be operated in store and
forward mode.
- RSF
- All the receive queues should be operated in store and
forward mode.
- Maximum Burst Length
- Maximum burst length supported by EQOS

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- Settings
- Value
- Comments
- RD_OSR_LMT
- Maximum AXI Read outstanding requests
- WR_OSR_LMT
- Maximum AXI Write outstanding requests
#### 10.6.3.11 Pad Calibration Programming Guidelines
ETHER_QOS padctrl registers are present in the registers section of this chapter.
##### 10.6.3.11.1 Programming Steps
1. 2. 3. Set PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD = 1 in ETHER_QOS_SDMEMCOMPPADCTRL_0 register. Wait for 1 µs after PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD is enabled.
- Set AUTO_CAL_START and AUTO_CAL_ENABLE to 1 in ETHER_QOS_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0
register. Wait for 1 µs.
- Wait for up to 10 ms for AUTO_CAL_ACTIVE in ETHER_QOS_AUTO_CAL_STATUS_0 register to
become 0. If it is not 0 after 10 ms, software can assume auto-calibration has timed out. If it becomes zero within 10 ms, it is assumed that calibration has completed. Clear PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD to save power.
- Software should not clear the AUTO_CAL_ENABLE in ETHER_QOS_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0
register after calibration. It should be set to 1 always to use the calibration codes generated by the calibration controller. 4. 5. 6. 7.
#### 10.6.3.12 Pad Recalibration Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.12.1 Programming Steps
1.
- Disable the interrupt RGSMIIIE bit in the MAC_Interrupt_Enable register (to avoid LNKSTS
interrupt triggered due to Rx pad disable/enable. In software ISR, for LNKSTS interrupt, read the MAC_PHYIF_Control_Status values and update speed and mode for MAC controller.)
- Disable the Transmit DMA by clearing Bit 0 (ST) of DMA_CH(#i)_TX_Control (for i = 0;i <=
DWC_EQOS_NUM_DMA_TX_CH-1) Register.
- Wait for any previous frame transmissions to complete. You can check this by reading the
appropriate bits of MTL_TxQ0_Debug register (TRCSTS is not 01 and TXQSTS=0).
- Disable the MAC transmitter and the MAC receiver by clearing Bit (RE) and Bit 1(TE) of the
MAC_Configuration register. Disable the Receive DMA, after making sure that the data in the Rx FIFO is transferred to the system memory (by reading the appropriate bits of MTL_RxQ0_Debug register, PRXQ=0 and RXQSTS=00). 2. 3. 4. 5.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines 6.
- Stop read/write to the PHY registers (MDIO interface) and check MDIO idle state with
MAC_MDIO_Address register bit0 (GB). Check the MAC_Debug register for a value for 0x0 to make sure that MII interface is idle.
- Disable the Rx Pad pins (PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RDx reg E_INPUT bit =0, where x =0,1,2,3
and PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RX_CTL_0 reg E_INPUT bit =0) Do pad calibration.
- Enable the Rx pad pins (PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RDx reg E_INPUT bit =1, where x =0,1,2,3
and PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RX_CTL_0 reg E_INPUT bit =1) 7. 8. 9. 10. a.
- Read the MAC_PHY_Control_Status register to clear any pending interrupts due to enable
Rx pad pins. 11. 12. 13. Start the Tx/Rx DMA channels. Enable the MAC Transmitter and Receiver (MAC_config TE/RE bits). Enable interrupt RGSMIIIE bit in MAC_Interrupt_Enable register.
#### 10.6.3.13 Other Guidelines
The following guideline forwards all dropped packets to software. 1. To forward all the packets that are discarded by the (L2, VLAN, L3 and L4) filtering logic: Program MAC_Packet_Filter.RA bit to 1. To forward packets that have CRC Errors: Program MTL_RxQ0_Operation_Mode.FEP bit to 1.
- To forward undersized good packets (no CRC error but length < 64 bytes): Program
MTL_RxQ0_Operation_Mode.FUP bit to 1. 2. 3. The following guideline is for GCL Programming: 1. Software programs the Cycle time greater than the first-time interval in GCL for the proper functioning of Qbv. Software programs the following bit in the 1GMAC Core register to enable this interrupt. 2. a.
- MTL_EST_Intr_Enable.CGCE = 1
#### 10.6.3.14 Miscellaneous Programming Guidelines
In the receive path, all preemptable queues should be operated in store and forward mode.
- At the Transmit side, packets coming out of 1GMAC/XGMAC must have an additional IPG plus
the minimum IPG (12 bytes) mentioned by the standard. The additional IPG is required to insert MACsec headers in the transmitting packets. It can be either: 24 bytes (8 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV) 32 bytes (16 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV)
- The Reside Queue (RQ) field (of MAC_RxQ_Ctrl1 register) should be programmed with a non-
zero value as Q0 is the default queue for express packets.

1G Ethernet Controller Registers
- The MSS field in the DMA_CH(#i)_Control register when TSO is enabled should be
programmed as follows.
- Max MSS: MSS+header should be equal to half the programmed Tx Queue size. The header
length plus the MSS size (which is equal to the size of each TCP segment) must not exceed 16383.
- Min MSS: Configured value should be greater than configured data width in
bytes. Recommended to use 64 B. Program the following register for Tx Queue VLAN tag insertion in the transmit packet.
- MAC_VLAN_Incl(#i) (for i = 0; i <= DWC_EQOS_NUM_TXQ-1)
- Program MISCREG_PADCTLREG_APE_PTP_CLK_MUX_SEL_0 to select the PTP Timestamp to
be used in APE module.
- Safety interrupts are routed to the HSM module by default. They are also routed as common
interrupt to LIC module when enabled.
- The following register should be programmed for this functionality
- ETHER_QOS_COMMON_INTR_ENABLE_0
Perform the following steps before issuing soft reset. a.
- Disable the Transmit DMA (if applicable) by clearing Bit 0 (ST) of DMA_CH(#i)_TX_Control
(for i = 0; i <= DWC_EQOS_NUM_DMA_TX_CH-1) register.
- Wait for any previous frame transmissions to complete. You can check this by reading the
appropriate bits of MTL_TxQ0_Debug register (TRCSTS is not 01 and TXQSTS=0).
- Disable the MAC transmitter and MAC receiver by clearing Bit (RE) and Bit 1(TE) of the
MAC_Configuration register.
- Disable the Receive DMA (if applicable), after ensuring that the data in the Rx FIFO is
transferred to the system memory (by reading the appropriate bits of MTL_TxQ0_Debug register, PRXQ=0 and RXQSTS=00).
- Ensure that both the Tx Queue and Rx Queue are empty (TXQSTS is 0 in MTL_TxQ0_Debug
register and RXQSTS is 0 in MTL_RxQ0_Debug register).
- To restart the operation, first start the DMAs, then enable the MAC Transmitter and
Receiver. b. c. d. e. f.}(@{Key=10.6.3; Title=1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 10.6.3.1 Virtualization Programming Guidelines
The Virtualization register programming is the first step before exercising any other feature of the ETHER_QOS IP.
##### 10.6.3.1.1 Address Range
ETHER_QOS has 10x64KB of address space allocated consecutively. ETHER_QOS_HV address space is allocated to HV. ETHER_QOS_RM address space is allocated to RM.
- Any CPU that accesses ETHER_QOS through the ETHER_QOS_RM (64KB) address space is treated
as RM.
- ETHER_QOS Sub Apertures
- Reserved/
- In use
- Offset from Base Addr
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_EQOS_BASE
- ETHER_MAC_HV
- In use
0x00000
- ETHER_MAC_RM
- In use
0x10000
- ETHER_MAC_VM0
- In use
0x20000
- ETHER_MAC_VM1
- In use
0x30000
- ETHER_MAC_VM2
- In use
0x40000
- ETHER_MAC_VM3
- In use
0x50000
- ETHER_MAC_VM4
- Reserved
0x60000
- ETHER_MAC_VM5
(Used to access only PTP registers)
- In use
0x70000

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- ETHER_QOS Sub Apertures
- Reserved/
- In use
- Offset from Base Addr
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_EQOS_BASE
- ETHER_MAC_VM6
- Reserved
0x80000
- ETHER_MAC_VM7
- Reserved
0x90000
##### 10.6.3.1.2 Registers Access Control
RM is a trusted software and has unrestricted access for write and read of both core and wrapper registers other than HV page registers.
- For Guest OSes
Core registers:
- Read access is provided for all registers except the unassigned DMA channel registers and
Read_to_Clear (RC) registers.
- Write access is provided to only the DMA channel registers that are allocated for that
particular Guest OS Wrapper registers:
- Write and Read access is only provided to the respective ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx
registers that RM configures.
##### 10.6.3.1.3 Allocation of Channels (CHx)
1GMAC has eight CHx that support both Write (write to Ethernet network) and Read (read from Ethernet network) capability. A single CHx should be allocated to, at most, one Guest OS by RM. Note: Half-duplex mode only CH0 can be used on Tx Side. On the Rx side, multiple queues and channels can be enabled.
- The Hypervisor can allocate ownership of DMA channels to Guest OSes by programming the
VIRTUAL_APB_CHx_DMA_CTRL registers.
##### 10.6.3.1.4 Illegal Registers Access
The ETHER_QOS IP generates an error signal if there is an illegal register access. If a Guest OS tries to access the CHx registers that is assigned to other Guest OSes, then it is treated as a security issue and hence these are treated as errors. The slave error is generated when the corresponding guest OS control bit is enabled in VIRTUAL_APB_ERR_CTRL, which RM can only access. During illegal register access, all writes to registers are dropped and all register reads are masked by returning the value zero.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.1.5 Assigning Address Stream ID for all channels on AXI/Memory Interface
Through VIRTUAL_AXI_ASIDx_CTRL register programming, only the Hypervisor can assign different address stream IDs for different channels.
#### 10.6.3.2 Guidelines to Access PTP Registers from VMs
- PTP Registers are from offset 0xb00 to 0xbff. Any VM can read these registers through
ETHER_QOS VM5 AMAP page. All VMs, which require PTP register read access, can issue the read transactions with the base address: NV_ADDRESS_MAP_EQOS_MAC_VM5_BASE. Hardware issues a slave error for any other read or write transactions to ETHER_QOS VM5 AMAP page.
#### 10.6.3.3 Guidelines for Handling ETHER_QOS_VM[i]_interrupt by Guest
- OS
1. RM sets up DMA to VM mapping by programming the following registers:
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_APB_CHx_DMA_CTRL_0
- TX and RX DMA channel interrupts capture is enabled by programming the following
registers.
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx_CTRL_0
DMA channel interrupts are captured in per channel interrupt status registers.
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx_STATUS_0
Interrupts for all DMA channels are also captured in the following global register as Read only bits.
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_DMA_GLOBAL_STATUS_0
- Tx and Rx DMA channel interrupts are mapped to eqos_vm_intr [3:0] based on the DMA
Channel to VM-mapping registers. When VM receives interrupt, it should carry out the following operation: 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. a. b.
- Read ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_DMA_GLOBAL_STATUS_0
- Handle the interrupt in the 1GMAC core logic as per the “Interrupts” in the following
section.
- Clear interrupt by writing to the corresponding interrupt bits
in ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_INTR_CHx_STATUS_0 c. i. Clearing of channel interrupt status clears the corresponding bit in global status register too.
##### 10.6.3.3.1 Interrupts
Interrupts can be generated as a result of various events in the DWC_ether_qos controller. These events are captured in status registers. Interrupt enables are provided for each source of an interrupt such that the interrupt signal (sbd_intr_o) is asserted for an event only when the corresponding interrupt enable is set. In EQOS-AXI configuration, the interrupt status and

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines corresponding enable registers are organized in a hierarchical manner so that it is easier for software to traverse and identify the source of an interrupt event quickly. When sbd_intr_o is asserted, the DMA_Interrupt_Status register is the first level that indicates the major blocks for the interrupt event source. This register is read-only, and it contains bits corresponding to each DMA channel (TX and RX pair), the MTL, and the MAC. The software application must then read one (or more) of the following registers corresponding to the bits that are set:
- MAC_Interrupt_Status register
- MTL_Interrupt_Status register
- DMA_CH(#i)_Status (for i = 0; i <= DWC_EQOS_NUM_DMA_TX_CH-1) register
#### 10.6.3.4 Guidelines for Handling EQOS_common_intr
1.
- Read EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register to know the root cause of the interrupt. It can
be any of the following:
- Correctable error from 1GMAC Core
- Uncorrectable error from 1GMAC Core
- SBD Interrupt from 1GMAC Core
- LPI Interrupt from 1GMAC Core
- PMT Interrupt from 1GMAC Core
- Register Parity Error from ETHER_QOS Wrapper Registers
2.
- Read ETHER_QOS_COMMON_INTR_ENABLE_0 register to know which of the preceding
errors are propagated on the common interrupt line. If the interrupt is due to: 3. a.
- SBD interrupt from 1GMAC Core
i. Refer to the “Interrupts” section above. Write 1 to clear SBD Intr status in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register. ii. b.
- LPI interrupt or PMT interrupt from 1GMAC Core
i. Refer to the "LPI Interrupt" in the following section. Write 1 to clear the corresponding status in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register. ii. c.
- Register Parity Error from ETHER_QOS Wrapper Registers
i. This error occurs when the last read register value has some corrupt data. Error recovery can be done in either of the following ways: ii. a.
- Writing into that register again, clear the status in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS
register and checking if the parity error goes away.
- Resetting the IP
b. d.
- Correctable error or uncorrectable error from 1GMAC Core
i. Refer to the "Interrupt for Parity Error" the following section. Write 1 to clear the corresponding bits in EQOS_COMMON_INTR_STATUS register. ii.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.4.1 Interrupt for Parity Error
- DWC_ether_qos generates an uncorrectable interrupt, sbd_sfty_ue_intr_o to indicate to the
application if any parity error is detected. Appropriate status is indicated in DMA/ MTL_Safety_Interrupt_Status and MAC_DPP_FSM_Interrupt_Status registers. All the parity errors reported by the different checkers are logged in the MAC_DPP_FSM_Interrupt_Status register. Note: A parity error is uncorrectable, and in most cases the operation of the DWC_ether_qos is not guaranteed after a parity error. A software reset (for DMA and higher configurations) or a hardware reset (for MTL configuration) is required to recover safely from the parity error reported by the assertion of sbd_sfty_ue_intr_o signal.
##### 10.6.3.4.2 LPI Interrupt
The MAC generates the LPI interrupt when the Tx or Rx side enters or exits the LPI state. The interrupt mci_intr_o (sbd_intr_o in EQOS-DMA configurations) is asserted when the LPI interrupt status is set. The LPI interrupt can be cleared by reading the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register. When the MAC exits the Rx Low Power Interrupt (LPI) state, then in addition to the mci_intr_o (sbd_intr_o in EQOS-DMA configurations), the sideband signal lpi_intr_o (synchronous to Rx clock) is asserted. You can use the lpi_intr_o signal to trigger the external clock-gating circuitry to restore the application clock to the MAC. The lpi_intr_o signal, synchronous to the Rx clock domain, is provided so that you can stop the application clock when the MAC is in the LPI state. If you do not want to gate-off the application clock during the Rx LPI state, you can leave the lpi_intr_o signal unconnected. Then, use the mci_intr_o (sbd_intr_o in EQOSDMA configurations) signal to detect Rx LPI exit. The lpi_intr_o signal is generated in the Rx clock domain. It may not be cleared immediately after the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register is read. This is because the clear signal, generated in CSR clock domain, has to cross the Rx clock domain, and then clear the interrupt source. This delay is at least four clock cycles of Rx clock and can be significant when the DWC_ether_qos is operating in the 10Mbps mode.
#### 10.6.3.5 Access Lock for DCRCC, RSF, and FEP in 1GMAC
At the receive side, packets, which violate MACsec security protocol are corrupted and sent to MAC with incorrect CRC. MAC must drop all such packets. But 1GMAC has the following configuration bits with which even incorrect CRC Packets can be taken into the system.
- MAC_Ext_Configuration.DCRCC ;; Disables CRC check
- MTL_RxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode.RSF ;;Queue is in cut-through mode and [ i = {0,1,2,…9}
- Receive queue number]
- MTL_RxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode.FEP ;; Forward error packets and [ i = {0,1,2,…9} =
- Receive queue number]

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- Therefore, software access must block the register configuration bitsto ensure that MACSEC
rejected packets are dropped in MAC. It is implemented using the Lock control bits in MACSEC TZ space as shown in the below diagram.
- MACSEC_MAC_CONTROL_0.DCRCC_LOCK = 1
access control bit in MACSEC
- MACSEC_MAC_CONTROL_0.RxQ_FEP_LOCK = 1
access control bit in MACSEC for all 10 queues
- MACSEC_MAC_CONTROL_0.RSF_LOCL = 1
access control bit in MACSEC for all 10 queues. The default value for Locks is “1." During normal operation, Trusted software (TZ entity) can remove the Lock, update the value of DCRC, FEP, and RSF to their secure state and apply the Lock. After Lock is applied, normal ETHER_QOS driver cannot update these values from normal world.
**Figure 10.40 Blocking the access to CRC Configuration bits in XGMAC**
The Lock Control bits are available only in TZ when TZ is active based on macsec_hw_tz_check fuse.
- During the bring-up phase, when the fuse is not blown, RM can access these LOCK bits and
program them to “0”. Then the RM updates the value of DCRC, FEP, and RSF bits to their desired value. When the macsec_hw_tz_check fuse is blown, the TZ software only can set or reset these Lock bits.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
#### 10.6.3.6 DMA Channel Recovery Programming Guidelines
Steps to recover a DMA channel in an error condition (By reading DMA_CH(#i)_Status register) without affecting other channels. RM carries out the recovery steps.
- Tx Recovery
1. Stop the TX DMA (even when it is active state). Flush the corresponding MTL queue. Reprogram the DMA channel-specific registers. Start the DMA channel. a. b. c. d.
- Rx Recovery
2. Stop the RX DMA. Set the RPF bit so that all packets get flushed one after another (this would lead to packet drops for that queue). Reprogram the DMA channel-specific registers. Start the DMA channel. a. b. c. d.
#### 10.6.3.7 DMA/Queue Dynamic Change of Arbitration Rules
- MTL Transmit Queues Arbitration
“MTL_Operation_Mode.SCHALG” register field sets the Tx scheduling algorithm scheme. This value can be dynamically changed without any packet corruption.
- MTL Receive Queues Arbitration
“MTL_Operation_Mode.RAA” register field sets the Rx scheduling algorithm scheme. This value can be dynamically changed without any packet corruption.
- Transmit DMA channels Arbitration
“DMA_Mode.TAA” register field is used to select the arbitration scheme for transmit side when multiple TX DMA channels are enabled. This field can be changed dynamically.
#### 10.6.3.8 Golden Register Settings
The recommended values of some of the golden registers are shown.
- Table 10.16 Golden Register settings
- Register
- Field
- Value
- Comments
- DMA_Mode
- TXPR
- When 0, this bit indicates that RX DMA has higher
priority over TX DMA during arbitration for system memory access.
- DMA_Mode
- PR
- The priority ratio is 1:1 WRR between RX and TX DMA
arbitration requests.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.8.1 Route Safety interrupt to LIC as common interrupt
The safety interrupts can be routed to the Ethernet software driver when the following bits are programmed:
- COMMON_INTR_MASK.EQOS_CORE_CORRECTABLE_ERR = 1
- COMMON_INTR_MASK.EQOS_CORE_UNCORRECTABLE_ERR = 1
#### 10.6.3.9 Programming Guidelines to Operate 1GMAC in Loop-back Mode
- For Internal loop-back mode, software has to configure ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0. RX_CLK_SEL
register bit to 1 (LOOPBACK), with which Tx Clock is fed to RX domain in the CAR module. Disable the SLCG by programming ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0. ETHER_QOS_CLK_OVR_ON bit to 1.
#### 10.6.3.10 Programming Guidelines for Energy-Efficient Ethernet
- The following register should be programmed in ETHER_QOS_Wrapper to enable clock gating
needed for EEE functionality.
- ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0. ETHER_QOS_CLK_OVR_ON=0
During the DWC_ether_qos initialization, after you enable the (EEE) you can program how to enter and exit Tx LPI mode:
##### 10.6.3.10.1 Entering and Exiting the Tx LPI Mode
EEE enables the IEEE 802.3 Media Access Control (MAC) sub layer along with a family of Physical layers to operate in the Low-Power Idle (LPI) mode. In the Transmit path, the software must set the LPIEN bit of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to indicate to the MAC to stop transmission and initiate the LPI protocol. You can configure the (EEE) feature in coreConsultant while initializing the controller. Follow these steps while initializing DWC_ether_qos: 1.
- Read the PHY register through the MDIO interface, check if the remote end has the EEE
capability, and then negotiate the timer values.
- Program the PHY registers through the MDIO interface (including the RX_CLK_stoppable bit
that indicates to the PHY whether to stop Rx clock in LPI mode.) Program Bits[25:16] and Bits[15:0] in MAC_LPI_Timers_Control register.
- Read the link status of the PHY chip by using the MDIO interface and update Bit 17 of
- MAC_LPI_Control_Status accordingly. This update should be done whenever the link status in
the PHY chip changes.
- Program the MAC_1US_Tic_Counter as per the frequency of the clock used for accessing the
CSR slave port. 2. 3. 4. 5.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines 6.
- Program the MAC_LPI_Entry_Timer register (LPIET) with the IDLE time for which the MAC
should wait before entering the LPI state on its own.
- Set LPITE and LPITXA (bit[20:19]) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to enable the auto-
entry into LPI and auto-exit of MAC from LPI state.
- Program the MAC_1US_Tic_Counter as per the frequency of the clock used for accessing the
CSR slave port.
- Program the MAC_LPI_Entry_Timer register (LPIET) with the IDLE time for which the MAC
should wait before entering the LPI state on its own.
- Set LPITE and LPITXA (bit[20:19]) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to enable the auto-
entry into LPI and auto-exit of MAC from LPI state.
- Set Bit 16 of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to make the MAC Transmitter enter the LPI
state. The MAC enters the LPI mode after completing all scheduled packets and remains IDLE for the time indicated by LPIET. It sets the TLPIEN (bit[0]) after entry to LPI state.
- When a packet is scheduled for transmission (when the TxDMA comes out of IDLE state or
when a packet is presented at ATI or MTI interface), the MAC Transmitter exits LPI state automatically. It waits for TWT time before setting the TLPIEX interrupt status bit and then resume the packet transmission. MAC Transmitter reenters LPI state if it remains IDLE for LPIET time and sets the TLPIEN bit and the entry-exit cycle continues. Reset LPITXEN if the application wants to override the auto-entry/exit modes and it wants to make the MAC Transmitter exit the LPI state directly. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. Notes: 1.
- To ensure that MAC enter the LPI state only after completion of transmission of all the
queued frames in the Tx FIFO, you should set Bit 19 in MAC_LPI_Control_Status register.
- To turn off the GMII Transmit Clock during the LPI state, use the sbd_tx_clk_gating_ctrl_o
signal for gating the clock input. 2.
- Table 10.17 Recommended Settings for Performance
- Settings
- Value
- Comments
- PBLx8
Enable eight times PBL mode.
- Each beat is 16 bytes. Multiple by 8 will make it 128
bytes.
- RxPBL
Configure RX PBL to 1 KB.
- TxPBL
Configure TX PBL to 1 KB.
- IPBL
Disable Ignore PBL configuration.
- TSF
- All the transmit queues should be operated in store and
forward mode.
- RSF
- All the receive queues should be operated in store and
forward mode.
- Maximum Burst Length
- Maximum burst length supported by EQOS

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- Settings
- Value
- Comments
- RD_OSR_LMT
- Maximum AXI Read outstanding requests
- WR_OSR_LMT
- Maximum AXI Write outstanding requests
#### 10.6.3.11 Pad Calibration Programming Guidelines
ETHER_QOS padctrl registers are present in the registers section of this chapter.
##### 10.6.3.11.1 Programming Steps
1. 2. 3. Set PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD = 1 in ETHER_QOS_SDMEMCOMPPADCTRL_0 register. Wait for 1 µs after PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD is enabled.
- Set AUTO_CAL_START and AUTO_CAL_ENABLE to 1 in ETHER_QOS_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0
register. Wait for 1 µs.
- Wait for up to 10 ms for AUTO_CAL_ACTIVE in ETHER_QOS_AUTO_CAL_STATUS_0 register to
become 0. If it is not 0 after 10 ms, software can assume auto-calibration has timed out. If it becomes zero within 10 ms, it is assumed that calibration has completed. Clear PAD_E_INPUT_OR_E_PWRD to save power.
- Software should not clear the AUTO_CAL_ENABLE in ETHER_QOS_AUTO_CAL_CONFIG_0
register after calibration. It should be set to 1 always to use the calibration codes generated by the calibration controller. 4. 5. 6. 7.
#### 10.6.3.12 Pad Recalibration Programming Guidelines
##### 10.6.3.12.1 Programming Steps
1.
- Disable the interrupt RGSMIIIE bit in the MAC_Interrupt_Enable register (to avoid LNKSTS
interrupt triggered due to Rx pad disable/enable. In software ISR, for LNKSTS interrupt, read the MAC_PHYIF_Control_Status values and update speed and mode for MAC controller.)
- Disable the Transmit DMA by clearing Bit 0 (ST) of DMA_CH(#i)_TX_Control (for i = 0;i <=
DWC_EQOS_NUM_DMA_TX_CH-1) Register.
- Wait for any previous frame transmissions to complete. You can check this by reading the
appropriate bits of MTL_TxQ0_Debug register (TRCSTS is not 01 and TXQSTS=0).
- Disable the MAC transmitter and the MAC receiver by clearing Bit (RE) and Bit 1(TE) of the
MAC_Configuration register. Disable the Receive DMA, after making sure that the data in the Rx FIFO is transferred to the system memory (by reading the appropriate bits of MTL_RxQ0_Debug register, PRXQ=0 and RXQSTS=00). 2. 3. 4. 5.

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines 6.
- Stop read/write to the PHY registers (MDIO interface) and check MDIO idle state with
MAC_MDIO_Address register bit0 (GB). Check the MAC_Debug register for a value for 0x0 to make sure that MII interface is idle.
- Disable the Rx Pad pins (PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RDx reg E_INPUT bit =0, where x =0,1,2,3
and PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RX_CTL_0 reg E_INPUT bit =0) Do pad calibration.
- Enable the Rx pad pins (PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RDx reg E_INPUT bit =1, where x =0,1,2,3
and PADCTL_EQOS_EQOS_RX_CTL_0 reg E_INPUT bit =1) 7. 8. 9. 10. a.
- Read the MAC_PHY_Control_Status register to clear any pending interrupts due to enable
Rx pad pins. 11. 12. 13. Start the Tx/Rx DMA channels. Enable the MAC Transmitter and Receiver (MAC_config TE/RE bits). Enable interrupt RGSMIIIE bit in MAC_Interrupt_Enable register.
#### 10.6.3.13 Other Guidelines
The following guideline forwards all dropped packets to software. 1. To forward all the packets that are discarded by the (L2, VLAN, L3 and L4) filtering logic: Program MAC_Packet_Filter.RA bit to 1. To forward packets that have CRC Errors: Program MTL_RxQ0_Operation_Mode.FEP bit to 1.
- To forward undersized good packets (no CRC error but length < 64 bytes): Program
MTL_RxQ0_Operation_Mode.FUP bit to 1. 2. 3. The following guideline is for GCL Programming: 1. Software programs the Cycle time greater than the first-time interval in GCL for the proper functioning of Qbv. Software programs the following bit in the 1GMAC Core register to enable this interrupt. 2. a.
- MTL_EST_Intr_Enable.CGCE = 1
#### 10.6.3.14 Miscellaneous Programming Guidelines
In the receive path, all preemptable queues should be operated in store and forward mode.
- At the Transmit side, packets coming out of 1GMAC/XGMAC must have an additional IPG plus
the minimum IPG (12 bytes) mentioned by the standard. The additional IPG is required to insert MACsec headers in the transmitting packets. It can be either: 24 bytes (8 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV) 32 bytes (16 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV)
- The Reside Queue (RQ) field (of MAC_RxQ_Ctrl1 register) should be programmed with a non-
zero value as Q0 is the default queue for express packets.

1G Ethernet Controller Registers
- The MSS field in the DMA_CH(#i)_Control register when TSO is enabled should be
programmed as follows.
- Max MSS: MSS+header should be equal to half the programmed Tx Queue size. The header
length plus the MSS size (which is equal to the size of each TCP segment) must not exceed 16383.
- Min MSS: Configured value should be greater than configured data width in
bytes. Recommended to use 64 B. Program the following register for Tx Queue VLAN tag insertion in the transmit packet.
- MAC_VLAN_Incl(#i) (for i = 0; i <= DWC_EQOS_NUM_TXQ-1)
- Program MISCREG_PADCTLREG_APE_PTP_CLK_MUX_SEL_0 to select the PTP Timestamp to
be used in APE module.
- Safety interrupts are routed to the HSM module by default. They are also routed as common
interrupt to LIC module when enabled.
- The following register should be programmed for this functionality
- ETHER_QOS_COMMON_INTR_ENABLE_0
Perform the following steps before issuing soft reset. a.
- Disable the Transmit DMA (if applicable) by clearing Bit 0 (ST) of DMA_CH(#i)_TX_Control
(for i = 0; i <= DWC_EQOS_NUM_DMA_TX_CH-1) register.
- Wait for any previous frame transmissions to complete. You can check this by reading the
appropriate bits of MTL_TxQ0_Debug register (TRCSTS is not 01 and TXQSTS=0).
- Disable the MAC transmitter and MAC receiver by clearing Bit (RE) and Bit 1(TE) of the
MAC_Configuration register.
- Disable the Receive DMA (if applicable), after ensuring that the data in the Rx FIFO is
transferred to the system memory (by reading the appropriate bits of MTL_TxQ0_Debug register, PRXQ=0 and RXQSTS=00).
- Ensure that both the Tx Queue and Rx Queue are empty (TXQSTS is 0 in MTL_TxQ0_Debug
register and RXQSTS is 0 in MTL_RxQ0_Debug register).
- To restart the operation, first start the DMAs, then enable the MAC Transmitter and
Receiver. b. c. d. e. f.}.Body)
