# 10.6.2 1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description

#### 10.6.2.1 Overview
Ether_QOS is the 1G Ethernet Controller that supports 10M/100M/1G line speeds over its RGMII interface. Ether_QOS also supports MACsec. The ETHER_QOS block diagram is shown below. The IP is configured with an AXI4 master interface for system memory access and APB4 slave interfaces for CSR access from the host software.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.25 ETHER_QOS Block Diagram**
- The 1GMAC DMA controller has eight receive and eight transmit channels. The DMA controller
reads data from system memory (through AXI4 master interface) into transmit (Tx) memory buffer. The MTL and MAC blocks manage the transmission of data from the Tx buffer to the network. The data received on the network is stored into receive (Rx) memory buffer of the controller. The Rx DMA controller writes the Rx buffer data to the system memory (through AXI4 master interface). The 1GMAC micro-architecture provides 1GMAC access to six memory buffers:
- TSO memory: 8 kB of on chip memory to store headers for Transmit Segmentation Offload
- Tx Memory: 64 kB of on-chip memory to store transmit packets
- Rx Memory: 64 kB of on-chip memory to store received packets
- EST memory: 2 kB Memory for Descriptor Cache
- RXP memory: 3 kB of Receiver Parser memory
- Descriptor Cache: 4 kB
- The Ethernet data from 1GMAC is connected to MACSEC IP, which implements MACSEC ICV
generation and checking in compliance with IEEE802.1AE. The output of the MACSEC IP is connected to the pads and then reach out off chip PHY. The 1GMAC has multiple interrupts for various events that can occur in its MAC or in its DMA controller. The controller also generates fault

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description signals that is connected to HSM (Hardware Safety Manager) block on the chip to report faults in Ethernet Controller logic.
#### 10.6.2.2 Interfaces
##### 10.6.2.2.1 Internal Interfaces
- AXI4 Master Interface
- The 1GMAC DMA controller issues requests on an AXI4 master interface to access system
memory.
- Table 10.12 ETHER_QOS AXI parameters
#
- Parameter
- Size
- AXI Address Width

