# 10.6.4 1G Ethernet Controller Registers

#### 10.6.4.1 1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- EQOS_EQOS_MAC_MAC_CONFIGURATION_0
The MAC Configuration Register establishes the operating mode of the MAC.
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: See table below

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 ARPEN:
- ARP Offload Enable When this bit is set, the MAC can recognize an
incoming ARP request packet and schedules the ARP packet for transmission. It forwards the ARP packet to the application and also indicate the events in the RxStatus. When this bit is reset, the MAC receiver does not recognize any ARP packet and indicates them as Type frame in the RxStatus. This bit is available only when the Enable IPv4 ARP Offload is selected. 30:28
- RW
0x0 SARC:
- Source Address Insertion or Replacement Control This field controls the
source address insertion or replacement for all transmitted packets. Bit 30 specifies which MAC Address register (0 or 1) is used for source address insertion or replacement based on the values of Bits[29:28]: 2'b0x: - The mti_sa_ctrl_i and ati_sa_ctrl_i input signals control the SA field generation. 2'b10: - If Bit 30 is set to 0, the MAC inserts the content of the MAC Address 0 registers in the SA field of all transmitted packets.
- If Bit 30 is set to 1 and the Enable MAC Address Register 1 option is
selected while configuring the IP, the MAC inserts the content of the MAC Address 1 registers in the SA field of all transmitted packets. 2'b11:
- If Bit 30 is set to 0, the MAC replaces the content of the MAC Address 0
registers in the SA field of all transmitted packets. - If Bit 30 is set to 1 and the MAC Address Register 1 is enabled, the MAC replaces the content of the MAC Address 1 registers in the SA field of all transmitted packets. Note: Changes to this field take effect only on the start of a packet. If you write to this register field when a packet is being transmitted, only the subsequent packet can use the updated value, that is, the current packet does not use the updated value.
- RW
0x0 IPC:
- Checksum Offload When set, this bit enables the IPv4 header checksum
checking and IPv4 or IPv6 TCP, UDP, or ICMP payload checksum checking.
- When this bit is reset, the COE function in the receiver is disabled. The
- Layer 3 and Layer 4 Packet Filter and Enable Split Header features
automatically selects the IPC Full Checksum Offload Engine on the
- Receive side. When any of these features are enabled, you must set the
IPC bit. 26:24
- RW
0x0 IPG:
- Inter-Packet Gap These bits control the minimum IPG between packets
during transmission. This range of minimum IPG is valid in full-duplex mode. In the half-duplex mode, the minimum IPG can be configured only for 64-bit times (IPG = 100). Lower values are not considered. When a
- JAM pattern is being transmitted because of backpressure activation, the
- MAC does not consider the minimum IPG. This function (IPG less than 96
bit times) is valid only when EIPGEN bit in MAC_Ext_Configuration register is reset. When EIPGEN is set, then the minimum IPG (greater than 96 bit times) is controlled as per the description given in EIPG field in MAC_Ext_Configuration register.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 GPSLCE:
- Giant Packet Size Limit Control Enable When this bit is set, the MAC
considers the value in GPSL field in MAC_Ext_Configuration register to declare a received packet as Giant packet. This field must be programmed to more than 1,518 bytes. Otherwise, the MAC considers 1,518 bytes as giant packet limit. When this bit is reset, the MAC considers a received packet as Giant packet when its size is greater than 1,518 bytes (1522 bytes for tagged packet). The watchdog timeout limit, Jumbo Packet
- Enable and 2K Packet Enable have higher precedence over this bit, that is
the MAC considers a received packet as Giant packet when its size is greater than 9,018 bytes (9,022 bytes for tagged packet) with Jumbo Packet Enabled and greater than 2,000 bytes with 2K Packet Enabled.
- The watchdog timeout, if enabled, terminates the received packet when
watchdog limit is reached. Therefore, the programmed giant packet limit should be less than the watchdog limit to get the giant packet status.
- RW
0x0 S2KP:
- IEEE 802.3as Support for 2K Packets When this bit is set, the MAC
considers all packets with up to 2,000 bytes length as normal packets.
- When the JE bit is not set, the MAC considers all received packets of size
more than 2K bytes as Giant packets. When this bit is reset and the JE bit is not set, the MAC considers all received packets of size more than 1,518 bytes (1,522 bytes for tagged) as giant packets. For more information about how the setting of this bit and the JE bit impact the Giant packet status, see the Table, Giant Packet Status based on S2KP and JE Bits.
- Note: When the JE bit is set, setting this bit has no effect on the giant
packet status.
- RW
0x0 CST:
- CRC stripping for Type packets When this bit is set, the last four bytes
(FCS) of all packets of Ether type (type field greater than 1,536) are stripped and dropped before forwarding the packet to the application.
- Note: For information about how the settings of the ACS bit and this bit
impact the packet length, see the Table, Packet Length based on the CST and ACS Bits.
- RW
0x0 ACS:
- Automatic Pad or CRC Stripping When this bit is set, the MAC strips the
- Pad or FCS field on the incoming packets only if the value of the length
field is less than 1,536 bytes. All received packets with length field greater than or equal to 1,536 bytes are passed to the application without stripping the Pad or FCS field. When this bit is reset, the MAC passes all incoming packets to the application, without any modification.
- Note: For information about how the settings of CST bit and this bit
impact the packet length, see the Table, Packet Length based on the CST and ACS Bit .
- RW
0x0 WD:
- Watchdog Disable When this bit is set, the MAC disables the watchdog
timer on the receiver. The MAC can receive packets of up to 16,383 bytes.
- When this bit is reset, the MAC does not allow more than 2,048 bytes
(10,240 if JE is set high) of the packet being received. The MAC cuts off any bytes received after 2,048 bytes.
- RW
0x0 BE:
- Packet Burst Enable When this bit is set, the MAC allows packet bursting
during transmission in the GMII half-duplex mode.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 JD:
- Jabber Disable When this bit is set, the MAC disables the jabber timer on
the transmitter. The MAC can transfer packets of up to 16,383 bytes.
- When this bit is reset, if the application sends more than 2,048 bytes of
data (10,240 if JE is set high) during transmission, the MAC does not send rest of the bytes in that packet.
- RW
0x0 JE:
- Jumbo Packet Enable When this bit is set, the MAC allows jumbo packets
of 9,018 bytes (9,022 bytes for VLAN tagged packets) without reporting a giant packet error in the Rx packet status.
- RW
0x0 PS:
- Port Select This bit selects the Ethernet line speed. This bit, along with
- Bit 14, selects the exact line speed. In the 10/100 Mbps-only (always 1) or

