# 10.6.1 Overview

@{Key=10.6.1; Title=Overview; Body=The Ethernet Controller (also referred to as the Ethernet AVB, ETHER_QOS, or Ethernet MAC (Media Access Controller)) enables a host to transmit and receive data over the Ethernet in compliance with the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard. It also supports standards related to Audio Video Bridging (also called Time Sensitive Networking) and is primarily intended for use in automotive applications, but it may also be used as a general-purpose Ethernet interface.
#### 10.6.1.1 Standards Compliance
The Ethernet Controller is compliant with the following standards:
- IEEE 802.3-2008 for Ethernet MAC
- IEEE 1588-2008 for precision-networked clock synchronization
- IEEE 802.3az-2010 for Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE)
- IEEE 802.1as-201, timing, and synchronization for time-sensitive applications in bridged
- LANs
- IEEE 802.1Qat and IEEE 802.1Qav standards, Virtual Bridged LANs
- IEEE 1722-2011, Layer 2-transport protocol for time-sensitive apps in bridged LANs
- IEEE 802.1Q, VLAN tag filtering of Rx packets
- RGMII specification version 2.0 from HP/Marvell
- IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015 for Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic
- IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br for Frame preemption and Interspersing Express
- IEEE 802.1AE-2018 for MACSEC Media Access Control Security (MACsec)

1G Ethernet Controller
**Figure 10.24 High-Level Block Diagram**
#### 10.6.1.2 Ethernet Controller Features
The Ethernet Controller supports the following features: One channel (channel 0) for legacy, best-effort Ethernet traffic on transmit interface. Support for a maximum of eight queues at 100 Mbps and 1,000 Mbps.
- Support for jumbo frames of up to 16 KB
Support for an RGMII 1.8 V interface to an external Ethernet PHY at 10, 100, and 1,000 Mbps data transfer rates Support for serial Management interface MDIO and MDC. Forwarding Rx multicast/broadcast packets to multiple queues. Hardware virtualization capable of one (Hypervisor) + four (Guest OS) windows, to share the Ethernet Controller between up to four virtual machines.
- Audio synchronized to network time
Low predictable latency for audio packet processing.
- Capable of managing "class A" network traffic from a secure processor using the integrated
secure processors
##### 10.6.1.2.1 Mac Features
- Separate transmission, reception, and control interfaces to the application
- Configurable big-endian and little-endian mode for Transmit and Receive paths
Half-duplex operation: When Half duplex is enabled, only single channel can be used (channel 0).
- CSMA/CD Protocol support

1G Ethernet Controller
- Flow control using back pressure support (based on implementation-specific whitepapers
and UNH Ethernet Clause 4 MAC Test Suite - Annex D)
- Packet bursting and packet extension in 1,000 Mbps half-duplex operation
Full-duplex flow-control operations (IEEE 802.3x Pause packets and Priority flow control).
- Network statistics with RMON or MIB Counters (RFC2819/RFC2665)
- Ethernet packet timestamping as described in IEEE 1588-2002 and IEEE 1588-2008 (64-bit
timestamps given in the Tx or Rx status of PTP packet). Both one-step and two-step timestamping are supported in Tx direction.
- MDIO (Clause 22 and Clause 45) master interface for PHY device configuration
and management
##### 10.6.1.2.2 Tx and Rx Features
- Separate transmission, reception, and control interfaces to the application
- Configurable big-endian and little-endian mode for Transmit and Receive paths
Half-duplex operation: When Half duplex is enabled, only single channel can be used (channel 0).
- CSMA/CD Protocol support
- Flow control using backpressure support (based on implementation-specific whitepapers
and UNH Ethernet Clause 4-MAC Test Suite - Annex D)
- Packet bursting and packet extension in 1,000 Mbps half-duplex operation
- Full-duplex flow-control operations (IEEE 802.3x Pause packets and Priority flow control)
- Network statistics with RMON or MIB Counters (RFC2819/RFC2665)
- Ethernet packet timestamping as described in IEEE 1588-2002 and IEEE 1588-2008 (64-bit
timestamps given in the Tx or Rx status of PTP packet). Both one-step and two-step timestamping are supported in Tx direction.
- Flexibility to control the Pulse-Per-Second (PPS) output signal (ptp_pps_o)
- MDIO (Clause 22 and Clause 45) master interface for PHY device configuration
and management
- Tx Features
- Preamble and start of packet data (SFD) insertion
- Separate 32-bit status for each packet transmitted from the application
- Automatic CRC and pad generation controllable on a per-packet basis
- Programmable packet length to support Standard or Jumbo Ethernet packets with up to 16
kB of size
- Programmable Inter-Packet Gap
- IEEE 802.3x Flow Control automatic transmission of zero-quanta Pause packet when flow
control input transitions from assertion to de-assertion (in full-duplex mode).

1G Ethernet Controller
- Source MAC Address field insertion/replacement, and VLAN tag insertion/replacement/
deletion in transmitted packets with per-packet or static-global control
- Insertion, replacement, or deletion of up to two VLAN tags
- Option to transmit packets with reduced preamble size in full-duplex mode
Insert, replace, or delete VLAN tags based on queue/channel.
- Rx Features
- Automatic Pad and CRC Stripping options
- Option to disable Automatic CRC checking
- Preamble and SFD deletion
- Separate 112-bit or 128-bit status
- Programmable watchdog timeout limit
Flexible address-filtering modes:
- Up to 31 additional 48-bit perfect (DA) address filters with masks for each byte
Up to 96 additional 48-bit perfect (DA) address filters that can be selected in blocks of 32 and 64 registers
- Up to 31 48-bit SA address comparison check with masks for each byte
32-bit, 64-bit, 128-bit, or 256-bit Hash filter (optional) for multicast and unicast (DA) addresses
- Option to pass all multicast-addressed packets
- Promiscuous mode to pass all packets without any filtering for network monitoring
Pass all incoming packets (as per filter) with a status report. Additional packet filtering:
- VLAN tag-based: Perfect match and Hash-based (optional) filtering. Filtering based on
either outer or inner VLAN tag is possible.
- Layer 3 and Layer 4-based: TCP or UDP over IPv4 or IPv6
- VLAN tag-based filtering (extended) with 4, 8, 16, or 32 filter selections
- IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag detection with option to delete the VLAN tags in received packets
GPIO based wakeup (PHY detects Wake packets and interrupts controller).
- Optional forwarding of received Pause packets to the application (in full-duplex mode)
- Optional Receive module for Layer 3/Layer 4 checksum offload for received packets
Optional stripping of VLAN Tags and providing the tags in the status.
#### 10.6.1.3 Transaction Layer (MTL)
The Transaction Layer (MTL) block has a 36 KB Tx FIFO and a 36 KB Rx FIFO. Multiple queues (up to eight) share the FIFO space and the buffer size is configurable for each queue in multiples of 256 bytes. The MTL block supports the following features:

1G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.6.1.3.1 Tx and Rx Features
128-bit Transaction Layer block (bridges the application and the MAC) Data transfers executed using simple FIFO protocol.
- Synchronization for all clocks in the design (Transmit, Receive, and Application clocks)
- Optimization for packet-oriented transfers with packets delimiters
- Programmable burst length, up to half the size of the MTL Rx Queue or Tx Queue size, to
support burst data transfer in the EQOS-AXI configuration
- Programmable threshold capability for each queue (default of 64 bytes)
- Optional debug and slave mode operation on Queue 0 (default queue)
- Tx Features
- FIFO sizes on transmission: up to 128 kB
- Multiple queues (up to eight) on the Transmit path with a common memory for all Tx Queues
- Store-and-Forward mechanism or threshold mode (cut-through) for transmission to the MAC
- Programmable queue size in configurations with multiple queues. Each queue size can be
programmed in terms of 256 bytes.
- Automatic retransmission of collision packets in half-duplex mode
- Discard packets on late collision, excessive collisions, excessive deferral, and under-run
conditions with appropriate status. Calculate and insert IPv4 header checksum and TCP, UDP, or ICMP checksum.
- Programmable interrupt options for different operational conditions
- Statistics by generating pulses for packets dropped (due to underflow) in the Tx FIFO
- Optional statistics related to bandwidth consumption by each queue of up to 16 blocks over
a 125 µs period Optional packet-level control for:
- VLAN tag insertion or replacement
- Ethernet-source address insertion
- Layer 3/Layer 4 Checksum insertion control
- One-step timestamp
- Timestamp control
- CRC and pad control
The following scheduling algorithms in configurations with multiple queues:
- Strict Priority (SP)
(When Audio-Video Bridging is enabled) Credit-based Shaper (CBS)
- Option to support dropping of Tx Status to improve the Transmit throughput
- Rx Features
- Rx Queue sizes in the receive path: up to 128 kB

1G Ethernet Controller
- Multiple queues (up to eight) on the receive path with a common memory for all Rx Queues
Insertion of Rx Status vectors into the Rx Queue after the EOP transfer (in Threshold mode) and before SOP (in Store-and-Forward mode) in EQOS-AXI configuration
- Programmable Rx Queue threshold (default fixed at 64 bytes) in Threshold (or cut-through)
mode Option to filter all error packets on reception and not forward them to the application in the store-and-forward mode.
- Option to forward the undersized good packets
- Statistics by generating pulses for packets dropped (due to overflow) in the Rx FIFO
- Automatic generation of Pause packet control or backpressure signal to the MAC based on
the Rx Queue fill level. Arbitration among queues when multiple queues are present. The following arbitration schemes are supported:
- Weighted Strict priority (WSP)
- Strict Priority (SP)
#### 10.6.1.4 Direct Memory Access (DMA) Block
- The DMA block exchanges data between the MTL block and system memory. The well-defined
descriptors structure acts as a software and hardware interface. The application uses a set of registers (DMA CSR) to control the DMA operations. The DMA block supports the following features:
- Support for a maximum of eight DMA channels
128-bit data transfers
- Multichannel Transmit and Receive engines (up to eight transmit channels; up to eight
receive channels).
- Separate DMA channel in the Transmit path for each queue in MTL
- Single or multiple DMA channels for any number of queues in MTL Receive path
- Fully synchronous design operating on a single application clock (except for CSR module,
when a separate CSR clock is configured). Optimization for packet-oriented DMA transfers with packet delimiters.
- Byte-aligned addressing for data buffer support
- Dual-buffer (ring) descriptor support
- Descriptor architecture to permits large blocks of data transfer with minimum CPU
intervention (each descriptor can transfer up to 32 KB of data). Comprehensive status reporting for normal operation and transfers with errors.
- Individual programmable burst length for Tx DMA and Rx DMA engines for optimal host bus
utilization
- Programmable interrupt options for different operational conditions
Per-packet Transmit or Receive Complete Interrupt control.

1G Ethernet Controller
- Round-robin or fixed-priority arbitration between the Receive and Transmit engines
- Start and Stop modes
- Separate ports for host CSR access and host data interface
- Selectable number of Tx DMA channels with TCP Segmentation Offload (TSO) feature
enabled
- Received packets routing to the DMA channels based on the DA or VLAN Priority in
multichannel DMA configurations. Header Payload Split: Option to split the packet header (up to Layer 2, Layer 3 and Layer 4) and payload in different buffers
- Time-sensitive conditional packet transmission by comparing the Slot Time information
provided in the descriptor (useful for Audio Video applications)
#### 10.6.1.5 MACsec Media Access Control Security (MACsec) Block
The Ethernet Controller supports the following MACsec features: Supports IEEE 802.1AE_2018 based packet authentication. Packet Encryption is not supported.
- Supports up to 1G port speed. Only supported in full duplex mode
- Supports AES-GCM-128 and AES-GCM-256 based ICV generation and checking
Only 16 bytes ICV configuration is supported.
- Thirty-two Secure Association Keys (SAKs) supported in Receive and Transmit direction
- Maximum number of Secure Channels (SCs) supported is 16 with two Association Number
(AN) each. With 4 AN, maximum eight SCs can be supported.
- Supports 32-bit Packet Number (PN)
No supports for 64-bit PN support (Extended PN as defined in IEEE 802.1AEbw-2013).
- Hardware-based Packet Number (PN) exhaustion check and automatic jump over to next AN,
if configured, in transmit direction.
- Replay Window or strict-order based replay protection
- Flow-based or global Bypass support
- Permits uncontrolled port traffic flowing through Ethernet port
- Statistics and Status for various MACsec related states and counters as defined by IEEE
802.1AE_2018
- Support for Preemptible and Express packets as specified in as defined by
- IEEE 802.1Qbu-2016
- Classification based on Flexible Offset
- Flexible Frame Validation check on Ingress
- Support for Legacy-Ethernet packets like SNAP, LLC packets
Majority of SecY functionality is implemented in hardware.

1G Ethernet Controller
- Hard Separation of register space for SecY and KaY pages
- SecY manages various MACsec controls like lookup, and so on.
- KaY manages Crypto Keys, Crypto ICVs, and Crypto state control parameters.
- Advanced debug support for both Receive and Transmit direction
- Safety features for Safety Critical applications
##### 10.6.1.5.1 Reduced Gigabit Media Independent Interface (RGMII)
The RGMII module is implemented in DWC_ether_qos to reduce the pin count. The RGMII specification reduces the pin count of the interconnection between the MAC and the PHY for GMII and MII interfaces. To achieve this, the datapath and control signals are reduced and multiplexed together with both edges of the Transmit and Receive clocks. For Gigabit operation, the clocks operate at 125 MHz; for 10/100 operation, the clock rates are 2.5 MHz/25 MHz.
##### 10.6.1.5.2 AXI Interface
AXI interface features can be divided into the following categories:
- AXI Master Interface Features
- AXI Slave Interface Features
- AXI Master Interface Features
The AXI master interface supports the following features:
- Interfaces with the application through AXI4 compatible interface
40-bit address width
- Little-endian and byte-invariant big-endian modes
- AXI low-power interface
128-bit datapath
- OKAY, SLVERR, and DECERR responses
- Software-selected
- Type of AXI burst (fixed and variable length burst) in AXI master interface;
- Extended length-fixed bursts of 32, 64, 128, and 256 supported
- Address-aligned bursts
4 KB boundary burst splitting and support for limiting burst to 1 KB boundary
- Up to 32 outstanding Read and Write transactions
- Posted writes during multiple data transfers from the AXI master interface to maximize the
bus use.
- Handshaking on AXI Read and Write data channels

1G Ethernet Controller
- AXI Slave Interface Features
Does not support Slave Interface. Use 32b wide APB interface to access control and status registers.
##### 10.6.1.5.3 Important Usage Models
- Time Sensitive Networking (TSN)
The Ethernet Controller supports the following TSN features:
- Time Synchronization
- IEEE 1588-2008 for precision-networked clock synchronization
- IEEE 802.1as-201, timing, and synchronization for time-sensitive applications in bridged
- LANs
- IEEE 802.1Qat and IEEE 802.1Qav standards, Virtual Bridged LANs
- IEEE 1722-2011, Layer 2-transport protocol for time-sensitive apps in bridged LANs
- IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015 for Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic
- IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br for Frame preemption and Interspersing Express
- Supports MACsec for both Express and Preemptible frames
MACsec features are defined in a previous section.
- AV Support
The Ethernet Controller supports the following AV features:
- Separate channels or queues for AV data transfer in 100 Mbps and 1,000 Mbps modes
- Up to eight queues on the Receive paths for AV traffic and seven queues on the Transmit
path for AV traffic
- IEEE 802.1-Qav specified credit-based shaper (CBS) algorithm for Transmit channels
Single Tx FIFO and Rx FIFO (MTL) for all selected queues (system-side interface [AHB, AXI, or native] remains the same).
- Monitoring, Testing, and Debugging Support
The Ethernet Controller supports the following features for monitoring, testing, and debugging:
- Internal loop-back from Tx to Rx on the GMII for debugging
- DMA states (Tx and Rx) as status bits
- Debug status register that gives status of FSMs in Transmit and Receive datapaths and FIFO
fill-levels
- Application Abort status bits

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- MMC (RMON) module
- Current Tx or Rx Buffer pointer as status registers
- Current Tx or Rx Descriptor pointer as status registers
- Statistical counters to calculate the bandwidth served by each Transmit channel when AV
support is enabled
- Tx or Rx Queues memory accessible through Slave port for debug
#### 10.6.1.6 Features Not Supported
##### 10.6.1.6.1 Frame-Based Arbitration
When operating in either Threshold (cut through) or Store and forward modes of operation, PBL- based arbitration is recommended over Frame based arbitration.
##### 10.6.1.6.2 Ignore Programmable Burst Length
Before placing a request for a data read from memory, the Tx controller checks that entries equivalent to the data request size (which is equal to Tx PBL) are available in the corresponding Tx Queue. If the space is available, it places a request on memory side. But, the IP also supports Ignore
- Programmable Burst Length (IPBL) in which the DMA does not check for the PBL number of
locations in the MTL before initiating a transfer. Therefore, use of IPBL is not recommended.
##### 10.6.1.6.3 Maximum AXI Burst Length of Four with TSO Enabled
The Ethernet Controller can program the burst length supported on AXI from a value of four up to 256 in powers of 2. When TCP Segmentation Offload is enabled, if the AXI burst length is less than the TCP/IP header size, a defect in the IP can cause one of the DMA channels to stop functioning. Because the maximum IPv4 header is 80 Bytes, if the AXI burst is programmed to a value greater than 5, this limitation does not occur since each burst is of 16B. Therefore, when TSO is enabled, the AXI BLEN enabled in the IP must be a minimum of 8 to avoid this issue.}(@{Key=10.6.1; Title=Overview; Body=The Ethernet Controller (also referred to as the Ethernet AVB, ETHER_QOS, or Ethernet MAC (Media Access Controller)) enables a host to transmit and receive data over the Ethernet in compliance with the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard. It also supports standards related to Audio Video Bridging (also called Time Sensitive Networking) and is primarily intended for use in automotive applications, but it may also be used as a general-purpose Ethernet interface.
#### 10.6.1.1 Standards Compliance
The Ethernet Controller is compliant with the following standards:
- IEEE 802.3-2008 for Ethernet MAC
- IEEE 1588-2008 for precision-networked clock synchronization
- IEEE 802.3az-2010 for Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE)
- IEEE 802.1as-201, timing, and synchronization for time-sensitive applications in bridged
- LANs
- IEEE 802.1Qat and IEEE 802.1Qav standards, Virtual Bridged LANs
- IEEE 1722-2011, Layer 2-transport protocol for time-sensitive apps in bridged LANs
- IEEE 802.1Q, VLAN tag filtering of Rx packets
- RGMII specification version 2.0 from HP/Marvell
- IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015 for Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic
- IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br for Frame preemption and Interspersing Express
- IEEE 802.1AE-2018 for MACSEC Media Access Control Security (MACsec)

1G Ethernet Controller
**Figure 10.24 High-Level Block Diagram**
#### 10.6.1.2 Ethernet Controller Features
The Ethernet Controller supports the following features: One channel (channel 0) for legacy, best-effort Ethernet traffic on transmit interface. Support for a maximum of eight queues at 100 Mbps and 1,000 Mbps.
- Support for jumbo frames of up to 16 KB
Support for an RGMII 1.8 V interface to an external Ethernet PHY at 10, 100, and 1,000 Mbps data transfer rates Support for serial Management interface MDIO and MDC. Forwarding Rx multicast/broadcast packets to multiple queues. Hardware virtualization capable of one (Hypervisor) + four (Guest OS) windows, to share the Ethernet Controller between up to four virtual machines.
- Audio synchronized to network time
Low predictable latency for audio packet processing.
- Capable of managing "class A" network traffic from a secure processor using the integrated
secure processors
##### 10.6.1.2.1 Mac Features
- Separate transmission, reception, and control interfaces to the application
- Configurable big-endian and little-endian mode for Transmit and Receive paths
Half-duplex operation: When Half duplex is enabled, only single channel can be used (channel 0).
- CSMA/CD Protocol support

1G Ethernet Controller
- Flow control using back pressure support (based on implementation-specific whitepapers
and UNH Ethernet Clause 4 MAC Test Suite - Annex D)
- Packet bursting and packet extension in 1,000 Mbps half-duplex operation
Full-duplex flow-control operations (IEEE 802.3x Pause packets and Priority flow control).
- Network statistics with RMON or MIB Counters (RFC2819/RFC2665)
- Ethernet packet timestamping as described in IEEE 1588-2002 and IEEE 1588-2008 (64-bit
timestamps given in the Tx or Rx status of PTP packet). Both one-step and two-step timestamping are supported in Tx direction.
- MDIO (Clause 22 and Clause 45) master interface for PHY device configuration
and management
##### 10.6.1.2.2 Tx and Rx Features
- Separate transmission, reception, and control interfaces to the application
- Configurable big-endian and little-endian mode for Transmit and Receive paths
Half-duplex operation: When Half duplex is enabled, only single channel can be used (channel 0).
- CSMA/CD Protocol support
- Flow control using backpressure support (based on implementation-specific whitepapers
and UNH Ethernet Clause 4-MAC Test Suite - Annex D)
- Packet bursting and packet extension in 1,000 Mbps half-duplex operation
- Full-duplex flow-control operations (IEEE 802.3x Pause packets and Priority flow control)
- Network statistics with RMON or MIB Counters (RFC2819/RFC2665)
- Ethernet packet timestamping as described in IEEE 1588-2002 and IEEE 1588-2008 (64-bit
timestamps given in the Tx or Rx status of PTP packet). Both one-step and two-step timestamping are supported in Tx direction.
- Flexibility to control the Pulse-Per-Second (PPS) output signal (ptp_pps_o)
- MDIO (Clause 22 and Clause 45) master interface for PHY device configuration
and management
- Tx Features
- Preamble and start of packet data (SFD) insertion
- Separate 32-bit status for each packet transmitted from the application
- Automatic CRC and pad generation controllable on a per-packet basis
- Programmable packet length to support Standard or Jumbo Ethernet packets with up to 16
kB of size
- Programmable Inter-Packet Gap
- IEEE 802.3x Flow Control automatic transmission of zero-quanta Pause packet when flow
control input transitions from assertion to de-assertion (in full-duplex mode).

1G Ethernet Controller
- Source MAC Address field insertion/replacement, and VLAN tag insertion/replacement/
deletion in transmitted packets with per-packet or static-global control
- Insertion, replacement, or deletion of up to two VLAN tags
- Option to transmit packets with reduced preamble size in full-duplex mode
Insert, replace, or delete VLAN tags based on queue/channel.
- Rx Features
- Automatic Pad and CRC Stripping options
- Option to disable Automatic CRC checking
- Preamble and SFD deletion
- Separate 112-bit or 128-bit status
- Programmable watchdog timeout limit
Flexible address-filtering modes:
- Up to 31 additional 48-bit perfect (DA) address filters with masks for each byte
Up to 96 additional 48-bit perfect (DA) address filters that can be selected in blocks of 32 and 64 registers
- Up to 31 48-bit SA address comparison check with masks for each byte
32-bit, 64-bit, 128-bit, or 256-bit Hash filter (optional) for multicast and unicast (DA) addresses
- Option to pass all multicast-addressed packets
- Promiscuous mode to pass all packets without any filtering for network monitoring
Pass all incoming packets (as per filter) with a status report. Additional packet filtering:
- VLAN tag-based: Perfect match and Hash-based (optional) filtering. Filtering based on
either outer or inner VLAN tag is possible.
- Layer 3 and Layer 4-based: TCP or UDP over IPv4 or IPv6
- VLAN tag-based filtering (extended) with 4, 8, 16, or 32 filter selections
- IEEE 802.1Q VLAN tag detection with option to delete the VLAN tags in received packets
GPIO based wakeup (PHY detects Wake packets and interrupts controller).
- Optional forwarding of received Pause packets to the application (in full-duplex mode)
- Optional Receive module for Layer 3/Layer 4 checksum offload for received packets
Optional stripping of VLAN Tags and providing the tags in the status.
#### 10.6.1.3 Transaction Layer (MTL)
The Transaction Layer (MTL) block has a 36 KB Tx FIFO and a 36 KB Rx FIFO. Multiple queues (up to eight) share the FIFO space and the buffer size is configurable for each queue in multiples of 256 bytes. The MTL block supports the following features:

1G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.6.1.3.1 Tx and Rx Features
128-bit Transaction Layer block (bridges the application and the MAC) Data transfers executed using simple FIFO protocol.
- Synchronization for all clocks in the design (Transmit, Receive, and Application clocks)
- Optimization for packet-oriented transfers with packets delimiters
- Programmable burst length, up to half the size of the MTL Rx Queue or Tx Queue size, to
support burst data transfer in the EQOS-AXI configuration
- Programmable threshold capability for each queue (default of 64 bytes)
- Optional debug and slave mode operation on Queue 0 (default queue)
- Tx Features
- FIFO sizes on transmission: up to 128 kB
- Multiple queues (up to eight) on the Transmit path with a common memory for all Tx Queues
- Store-and-Forward mechanism or threshold mode (cut-through) for transmission to the MAC
- Programmable queue size in configurations with multiple queues. Each queue size can be
programmed in terms of 256 bytes.
- Automatic retransmission of collision packets in half-duplex mode
- Discard packets on late collision, excessive collisions, excessive deferral, and under-run
conditions with appropriate status. Calculate and insert IPv4 header checksum and TCP, UDP, or ICMP checksum.
- Programmable interrupt options for different operational conditions
- Statistics by generating pulses for packets dropped (due to underflow) in the Tx FIFO
- Optional statistics related to bandwidth consumption by each queue of up to 16 blocks over
a 125 µs period Optional packet-level control for:
- VLAN tag insertion or replacement
- Ethernet-source address insertion
- Layer 3/Layer 4 Checksum insertion control
- One-step timestamp
- Timestamp control
- CRC and pad control
The following scheduling algorithms in configurations with multiple queues:
- Strict Priority (SP)
(When Audio-Video Bridging is enabled) Credit-based Shaper (CBS)
- Option to support dropping of Tx Status to improve the Transmit throughput
- Rx Features
- Rx Queue sizes in the receive path: up to 128 kB

1G Ethernet Controller
- Multiple queues (up to eight) on the receive path with a common memory for all Rx Queues
Insertion of Rx Status vectors into the Rx Queue after the EOP transfer (in Threshold mode) and before SOP (in Store-and-Forward mode) in EQOS-AXI configuration
- Programmable Rx Queue threshold (default fixed at 64 bytes) in Threshold (or cut-through)
mode Option to filter all error packets on reception and not forward them to the application in the store-and-forward mode.
- Option to forward the undersized good packets
- Statistics by generating pulses for packets dropped (due to overflow) in the Rx FIFO
- Automatic generation of Pause packet control or backpressure signal to the MAC based on
the Rx Queue fill level. Arbitration among queues when multiple queues are present. The following arbitration schemes are supported:
- Weighted Strict priority (WSP)
- Strict Priority (SP)
#### 10.6.1.4 Direct Memory Access (DMA) Block
- The DMA block exchanges data between the MTL block and system memory. The well-defined
descriptors structure acts as a software and hardware interface. The application uses a set of registers (DMA CSR) to control the DMA operations. The DMA block supports the following features:
- Support for a maximum of eight DMA channels
128-bit data transfers
- Multichannel Transmit and Receive engines (up to eight transmit channels; up to eight
receive channels).
- Separate DMA channel in the Transmit path for each queue in MTL
- Single or multiple DMA channels for any number of queues in MTL Receive path
- Fully synchronous design operating on a single application clock (except for CSR module,
when a separate CSR clock is configured). Optimization for packet-oriented DMA transfers with packet delimiters.
- Byte-aligned addressing for data buffer support
- Dual-buffer (ring) descriptor support
- Descriptor architecture to permits large blocks of data transfer with minimum CPU
intervention (each descriptor can transfer up to 32 KB of data). Comprehensive status reporting for normal operation and transfers with errors.
- Individual programmable burst length for Tx DMA and Rx DMA engines for optimal host bus
utilization
- Programmable interrupt options for different operational conditions
Per-packet Transmit or Receive Complete Interrupt control.

1G Ethernet Controller
- Round-robin or fixed-priority arbitration between the Receive and Transmit engines
- Start and Stop modes
- Separate ports for host CSR access and host data interface
- Selectable number of Tx DMA channels with TCP Segmentation Offload (TSO) feature
enabled
- Received packets routing to the DMA channels based on the DA or VLAN Priority in
multichannel DMA configurations. Header Payload Split: Option to split the packet header (up to Layer 2, Layer 3 and Layer 4) and payload in different buffers
- Time-sensitive conditional packet transmission by comparing the Slot Time information
provided in the descriptor (useful for Audio Video applications)
#### 10.6.1.5 MACsec Media Access Control Security (MACsec) Block
The Ethernet Controller supports the following MACsec features: Supports IEEE 802.1AE_2018 based packet authentication. Packet Encryption is not supported.
- Supports up to 1G port speed. Only supported in full duplex mode
- Supports AES-GCM-128 and AES-GCM-256 based ICV generation and checking
Only 16 bytes ICV configuration is supported.
- Thirty-two Secure Association Keys (SAKs) supported in Receive and Transmit direction
- Maximum number of Secure Channels (SCs) supported is 16 with two Association Number
(AN) each. With 4 AN, maximum eight SCs can be supported.
- Supports 32-bit Packet Number (PN)
No supports for 64-bit PN support (Extended PN as defined in IEEE 802.1AEbw-2013).
- Hardware-based Packet Number (PN) exhaustion check and automatic jump over to next AN,
if configured, in transmit direction.
- Replay Window or strict-order based replay protection
- Flow-based or global Bypass support
- Permits uncontrolled port traffic flowing through Ethernet port
- Statistics and Status for various MACsec related states and counters as defined by IEEE
802.1AE_2018
- Support for Preemptible and Express packets as specified in as defined by
- IEEE 802.1Qbu-2016
- Classification based on Flexible Offset
- Flexible Frame Validation check on Ingress
- Support for Legacy-Ethernet packets like SNAP, LLC packets
Majority of SecY functionality is implemented in hardware.

1G Ethernet Controller
- Hard Separation of register space for SecY and KaY pages
- SecY manages various MACsec controls like lookup, and so on.
- KaY manages Crypto Keys, Crypto ICVs, and Crypto state control parameters.
- Advanced debug support for both Receive and Transmit direction
- Safety features for Safety Critical applications
##### 10.6.1.5.1 Reduced Gigabit Media Independent Interface (RGMII)
The RGMII module is implemented in DWC_ether_qos to reduce the pin count. The RGMII specification reduces the pin count of the interconnection between the MAC and the PHY for GMII and MII interfaces. To achieve this, the datapath and control signals are reduced and multiplexed together with both edges of the Transmit and Receive clocks. For Gigabit operation, the clocks operate at 125 MHz; for 10/100 operation, the clock rates are 2.5 MHz/25 MHz.
##### 10.6.1.5.2 AXI Interface
AXI interface features can be divided into the following categories:
- AXI Master Interface Features
- AXI Slave Interface Features
- AXI Master Interface Features
The AXI master interface supports the following features:
- Interfaces with the application through AXI4 compatible interface
40-bit address width
- Little-endian and byte-invariant big-endian modes
- AXI low-power interface
128-bit datapath
- OKAY, SLVERR, and DECERR responses
- Software-selected
- Type of AXI burst (fixed and variable length burst) in AXI master interface;
- Extended length-fixed bursts of 32, 64, 128, and 256 supported
- Address-aligned bursts
4 KB boundary burst splitting and support for limiting burst to 1 KB boundary
- Up to 32 outstanding Read and Write transactions
- Posted writes during multiple data transfers from the AXI master interface to maximize the
bus use.
- Handshaking on AXI Read and Write data channels

1G Ethernet Controller
- AXI Slave Interface Features
Does not support Slave Interface. Use 32b wide APB interface to access control and status registers.
##### 10.6.1.5.3 Important Usage Models
- Time Sensitive Networking (TSN)
The Ethernet Controller supports the following TSN features:
- Time Synchronization
- IEEE 1588-2008 for precision-networked clock synchronization
- IEEE 802.1as-201, timing, and synchronization for time-sensitive applications in bridged
- LANs
- IEEE 802.1Qat and IEEE 802.1Qav standards, Virtual Bridged LANs
- IEEE 1722-2011, Layer 2-transport protocol for time-sensitive apps in bridged LANs
- IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015 for Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic
- IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br for Frame preemption and Interspersing Express
- Supports MACsec for both Express and Preemptible frames
MACsec features are defined in a previous section.
- AV Support
The Ethernet Controller supports the following AV features:
- Separate channels or queues for AV data transfer in 100 Mbps and 1,000 Mbps modes
- Up to eight queues on the Receive paths for AV traffic and seven queues on the Transmit
path for AV traffic
- IEEE 802.1-Qav specified credit-based shaper (CBS) algorithm for Transmit channels
Single Tx FIFO and Rx FIFO (MTL) for all selected queues (system-side interface [AHB, AXI, or native] remains the same).
- Monitoring, Testing, and Debugging Support
The Ethernet Controller supports the following features for monitoring, testing, and debugging:
- Internal loop-back from Tx to Rx on the GMII for debugging
- DMA states (Tx and Rx) as status bits
- Debug status register that gives status of FSMs in Transmit and Receive datapaths and FIFO
fill-levels
- Application Abort status bits

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- MMC (RMON) module
- Current Tx or Rx Buffer pointer as status registers
- Current Tx or Rx Descriptor pointer as status registers
- Statistical counters to calculate the bandwidth served by each Transmit channel when AV
support is enabled
- Tx or Rx Queues memory accessible through Slave port for debug
#### 10.6.1.6 Features Not Supported
##### 10.6.1.6.1 Frame-Based Arbitration
When operating in either Threshold (cut through) or Store and forward modes of operation, PBL- based arbitration is recommended over Frame based arbitration.
##### 10.6.1.6.2 Ignore Programmable Burst Length
Before placing a request for a data read from memory, the Tx controller checks that entries equivalent to the data request size (which is equal to Tx PBL) are available in the corresponding Tx Queue. If the space is available, it places a request on memory side. But, the IP also supports Ignore
- Programmable Burst Length (IPBL) in which the DMA does not check for the PBL number of
locations in the MTL before initiating a transfer. Therefore, use of IPBL is not recommended.
##### 10.6.1.6.3 Maximum AXI Burst Length of Four with TSO Enabled
The Ethernet Controller can program the burst length supported on AXI from a value of four up to 256 in powers of 2. When TCP Segmentation Offload is enabled, if the AXI burst length is less than the TCP/IP header size, a defect in the IP can cause one of the DMA channels to stop functioning. Because the maximum IPv4 header is 80 Bytes, if the AXI burst is programmed to a value greater than 5, this limitation does not occur since each burst is of 16B. Therefore, when TSO is enabled, the AXI BLEN enabled in the IP must be a minimum of 8 to avoid this issue.}.Body)
