# 10.6.2 1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description

@{Key=10.6.2; Title=1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description; Body=#### 10.6.2.1 Overview
Ether_QOS is the 1G Ethernet Controller that supports 10M/100M/1G line speeds over its RGMII interface. Ether_QOS also supports MACsec. The ETHER_QOS block diagram is shown below. The IP is configured with an AXI4 master interface for system memory access and APB4 slave interfaces for CSR access from the host software.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.25 ETHER_QOS Block Diagram**
- The 1GMAC DMA controller has eight receive and eight transmit channels. The DMA controller
reads data from system memory (through AXI4 master interface) into transmit (Tx) memory buffer. The MTL and MAC blocks manage the transmission of data from the Tx buffer to the network. The data received on the network is stored into receive (Rx) memory buffer of the controller. The Rx DMA controller writes the Rx buffer data to the system memory (through AXI4 master interface). The 1GMAC micro-architecture provides 1GMAC access to six memory buffers:
- TSO memory: 8 kB of on chip memory to store headers for Transmit Segmentation Offload
- Tx Memory: 64 kB of on-chip memory to store transmit packets
- Rx Memory: 64 kB of on-chip memory to store received packets
- EST memory: 2 kB Memory for Descriptor Cache
- RXP memory: 3 kB of Receiver Parser memory
- Descriptor Cache: 4 kB
- The Ethernet data from 1GMAC is connected to MACSEC IP, which implements MACSEC ICV
generation and checking in compliance with IEEE802.1AE. The output of the MACSEC IP is connected to the pads and then reach out off chip PHY. The 1GMAC has multiple interrupts for various events that can occur in its MAC or in its DMA controller. The controller also generates fault

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description signals that is connected to HSM (Hardware Safety Manager) block on the chip to report faults in Ethernet Controller logic.
#### 10.6.2.2 Interfaces
##### 10.6.2.2.1 Internal Interfaces
- AXI4 Master Interface
- The 1GMAC DMA controller issues requests on an AXI4 master interface to access system
memory.
- Table 10.12 ETHER_QOS AXI parameters
#
- Parameter
- Size
- AXI Address Width
40 bit
- AXI Data Width
128 bit
- AXI Master Bus ID Width
8 bit
- AXI Maximum Outstanding Read Requests
- AXI Maximum Outstanding Write Requests
- AXI Clock Frequency
125 MHz
- APB4 Slave Interface
1GMAC control interface supports APB4 slave interface. The slave interface uses the Async Slave bridge to ensure that there is no clock dependency with respect to CBB (Control Back Bone) clock for internal functionality. Block Level Firewall logic in Control Backbone provides access protection between Hypervisor, Resource Manager, and Virtual Machine pages. The IP can generate an APB slave error for illegal access based on configuration setting.
- Interrupt Interface
Ether QOS provides seven interrupts, as shown in the following table, for its internal IPs.
- Table 10.13 ETHER_QOS Consolidated LIC Interrupts
- Output
- Description
eqos_common_intr_o
- Common aggregated interrupt of
sbd_intr_o, lpi_intr_o, pmt_intr_o, safety interrupts eqos_MACsec_secure_intr
- Secured interrupt status from MACSEC

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Output
- Description
eqos_MACsec_non_secure_intr
- Non-Secured interrupt status from MACSEC
eqos_vm_intr_o[3:0] Per VM interrupt pin.
- Individual TX/RX DMA channel interrupts mapped to VM
interrupts
- HSM Fault Interrupt Interface
- ETHER_QOS supports multiple safety faults interrupts generated by its internal IPs. These
interrupts are consolidated into three fault interrupts and sent to the HSM (Hardware Safety Manager).
- Table 10.14 ETHER_QOS Consolidated HSM Interrupts
- Output
- Description
eqos_hsm_correctable_error
- Consolidated correctable error from ETHER_QOS and
- ETHER_QOS wrapper modules
eqos_hsm_uncorrectable_error
- Consolidated uncorrectable error from 1GMAC and ETHER_QOS
wrapper modules eqos_macsec_hsm_uncorrectable_error
- Consolidated uncorrectable error from 1GMAC MACsec
- Timestamp Interface
The 1GMAC controller provides various signals shown in the following table to Synchronize TSC
- Module with received PTP timestamp value. The upper 32 bits of timestamp corresponds to
number of seconds and the lower 32 bit corresponds to nanoseconds granularity. Internal timestamp Controller (TSC) logic uses this timestamp to synchronize its internal clock.
- Table 10.15 Timestamp Interface
- IP/Wrapper
- Signal Name
- Di
r
- Description
- Usage/Remarks
ptp_timestamp_o[ 63:0]
- Ou
t
- Reference Time Output. This bus provides the System Time
Output when it is generated internally.
- Used to capture the PTP and
TSC value simultaneously. ptp_pps_o
- Ou
t
- Pulse Per Second. This signal is high based on the PPS mode
selected in the MAC_PPS_Control register. When PPS is programmed in Media Clock recovery Mode, this port indicates the recovered clock.
- Sent to TSC. Used by TSC for
global reference and correction of TSC time. ptp_aux_ts_trig_i[ 0]
- In
- Auxiliary timestamp Trigger. When this signal goes high
(rising edge), a snapshot of the System Time is taken and stored in the auxiliary timestamp FIFO.
- Used to capture the PTP
timestamp snapshot in the
- AUX timestamp FIFO

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Pad Calibration Interface
The RGMII pads in Ether QOS support drive strength compensation. Pad Calibration Logic is used to provide this compensation. Perform a PAD calibration when any of the following conditions occur: Before initializing the EQOS MAC controller. When there is a change in speed from 10 Mbps to either 100 Mbps or 1,000 Mbps. If there is a temperature variation of more than 35 degrees Celsius. Note: Before PAD calibration starts, it is recommended that RGMII and MDIO interfaces are in IDLE state. Any ongoing RGMII traffic must be stopped, otherwise communication errors might occur. The NVIDIA EQOS driver software handles the PAD calibration mechanism, which already takes care of the above-mentioned conditions.
- Calibration Process
Compare the PMOS driving impedance with an external precision resistance of 50 Ω ± 1% lumped to ground. Then use the calibrated PMOS driving impedance as a reference to proceed the calibration of NMOS driving impedance. As shown in following diagram, input A is first set to ‘1’ to charge the pad I/O while NMOS driver is deactivated. The number of PMOS fingers is turned on sequentially by increasing the DRVUP codes to raise the total current flowing through the resistor. The resulting I*R at I/O is then compared with a 0.5*VDDP reference. When I/O reaches 0.5*VDDP, ZI turns into ‘1’ and the PMOS calibration ends. Similarly, for NMOS calibration, A is being set to ‘0’ to discharge I/O with partially turned on PMOS fingers based on the DRVUP codes obtained in PMOS calibration. By gradually increasing the DRVDN codes (hence the number of NMOS fingers) IO_N drops and finally ZI flips to ‘0’ when IO_N reaches 0.5*VDDP. This completes the calibration process.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.26 Calibration Process**
- Calibration Controller
The calibration controller is implemented as per the above-mentioned process. The calibration controller uses ‘usec_toggle’ pulse sourced from TIMER module. It toggles for every micro-second, which is used as micro-second reference in maintaining the micro-second counter in calibration engine. The FSM implementation is shown in the following diagram.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.27 Calibration Controller**
##### 10.6.2.2.2 External Interfaces
The Ether QOS pad logic can support 1.8 V operation. The interface constitutes 16 pins (RGMII Interface: 12 pins, MDIO Interface: 2 pins, GPIO Interface: 2 pins). Both INTR and RESET are GPIO only. The PMC handles the INTR pin. The INTR pin is wake capable.
- RGMII
RGMII has 12 pin interfaces; 6 are related to TX and other 6 are related to RX interface. The interface operates in DDR mode. This interface supports the Original RGMII Timing mode though the PHY/Switch component interfacing with ETHER_QOS must support RGMII-ID timing mode to avoid Clock Delay in relation to the data on the PCB. The data rates of this interface are 10/100/1000Mbps at 2.5/25/125 MHz respectively with a 4-bit data interface at DDR speeds simultaneously for both Tx and Rx transfers.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- MDIO
This is a 2-signal interface to PHY to access the PHY control and status registers. The interface constitutes a clock line at 2.5 MHz from the SoC to the PHY and the other line is a bidirectional data line. The MDC Clock line can support frequencies from 2.5 MHz to 25 MHz. The ETHER_QOS acts as the master to this interface.
- INTR by External PHY
This signal is used by the external PHY to communicate to the SoC for its internally generated interrupts--that requires the attention of the software. Then software uses the MDIO interface to access the PHY control and status registers to service the interrupts.
- RESET to External PHY
The RESET pin to external Ethernet PHY, which is a GPIO pin, is used to reset the external PHY.. The software controls the RESET pin. As part of the PHY initialization sequence, the RESET pin GPIO is programmed to apply the reset to external PHY and to recover from errors. It is an active low signal driven from the GPIO controller module.
#### 10.6.2.3 Features
##### 10.6.2.3.1 Power Management
- Wake On LAN
- The Ether QOS supports GPIO-based remote wake-up function. Attached PHY, on receiving the
Wake Up packet can generate Wake up trigger signal on connected GPIO. The PMC uses it to wake up the Ethernet Controller.
- Energy-Efficient Ethernet
The (EEE) mode is compliant with the IEEE 802.3az-2010 standard. It is primarily targeted to save power in the Ethernet port when there is no traffic on the line. In this mode, the host indicates to the far-end that it does not have any packets to transmit for the near future. The host puts the transmitter port (MAC Controller, SERDES, and attached PHY) into low-power mode. Similarly, the receiver port can also be put into low-power mode when the far-end host indicates that it does not have any traffic to transfer. This gives significant saving of power in the Ethernet port (mainly in the PHY) with intermittent and bursty traffic profile. The triggering of entry and exit out of the EEE mode is controlled by the MAC and is supported within the Ether QOS. Simultaneous operation of the EEE mode along with any or both the other power-saving modes is also supported in DWC_ether_qos.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Packet Filtering
The following figure shows the packet-filtering sequence on received packets.
**Figure 10.28 Packet Filtering Sequence**
The preceding filtering sequence is valid when all the filters (L2, VLAN, L3, L4) are active. If any of the layer filters are not enabled, that filter is bypassed and the subsequent filter is applied. A packet that fails any of the filters is discarded. However, the discarded packet can be forwarded to the host based on the register control. For example, when Bit RA of MAC_Packet_Filter register is set to 1, all discarded packets are forwarded to the host but with its packet status indicating the specific filter failure.
- Ethernet Source or Destination Address Filters
The filters support various kinds of Ethernet Source and Destination address-based filtering operations. Some of them are defined:
- Unicast Destination Address based filtering: Both perfect and hash filter-based checks are
provided on up to 128 MAC Addresses.
- Multicast Destination Address Filtering: The multicast address is compared with the
programmed MAC destination address registers (1–31).

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Broadcast Address filtering: The MAC does not filter any broadcast packets by default. To
program the MAC to reject all broadcast packets, set the DBF bit in MAC_Packet_Filter register.
- Unicast Source Address Filtering: The MAC can perform perfect filtering based on the
source address field of received packets. Inverse Filtering: For DA and SA filtering, the filter-match result at the final output can be inverted.
- VLAN Filters
In VLAN tag perfect filtering, the MAC compares the VLAN tag of received packet and provides the
- VLAN packet status to the application. The source or destination address (if enabled) has
precedence over the VLAN tag filters. This means that a packet that fails the source or destination address filter is dropped irrespective of the VLAN tag filter results. The MAC Receiver can classify the received packets based on VLAN Tag and steer them to a specific Rx DMA channel. Each of the VLAN Tags has individual control over stripping. The programming options of always strip, never strip, strip on pass, and strip on fail are available. Inner or Outer VLAN tag stripping is based on the pass or fail results of the individual tag.
- IP Source or Destination Address Filters
- The DWC_ether_qos supports perfect matching or inverse matching for IP source address and
destination address. In addition, you can match the complete IP address or mask the lower bits matching, that is, compare all bits of the address except the specified lower mask bits.
- TCP or UDP Source or Destination Port Filters
- The DWC_ether_qos supports perfect matching or inverse matching for TCP or UDP Source and
Destination Port numbers.
##### 10.6.2.3.2 Using PHY Interfaces
The main PHY interfaces are described in the following sections.
- Station Management Agent (SMA)
The application can access the PHY registers through the SMA. The SMA is a two-wire Station Management interface (MIM).
- Preamble Suppression
The IEEE standard specifies 32-bit preamble (all-ones) for the MDIO frames. The DWC_ether_qos provides controls to support preamble suppression. DWC_ether_qos transmits MDIO frames with

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description only one preamble bit. The preamble suppression can be enabled by setting the PSE bit of the MAC_MDIO_Address register.
- MDIO Transaction completion Interrupt
DWC_ether_qos can generate an interrupt on completion of MDIO read or write transactions. Therefore, the application does not need to poll the GMII Busy field of the MAC_MDIO_Address register to know the completion of MDIO commands.
- RGMII (Reduced Gigabit Media Independent) Interface
The RGMII Interface to the Physical Layer is capable of working at 1Gb/s, 100Mb/s and 10Mb/s. It supports MACsec when the link is operating at 1 Gbps speed. MACsec is not supported for 10 Mbps and 100 Mbps operations. The RGMII module is implemented in DWC_ether_qos to reduce the pin count as mentioned in the RGMII specification. The RGMII specification reduces the pin count of the interconnection between the MAC and the PHY for GMII and MII interfaces. To achieve this, the datapath and control signals are reduced and multiplexed together with both edges of the Transmit and Receive clocks. For Gigabit operation, the clocks operate at 125 MHz; for 10/100 operation, the clock rates are 2.5 MHz/25 MHz.
- The RGMII module is instantiated between the GMII of the MAC and the PHY to translate the
control and data signals between the GMII and RGMII protocols. The RGMII block has the following characteristics:
- Supports 10 Mbps, 100 Mbps, and 1,000 Mbps operation rates
- Requires no extra clock because both edges of the incoming clocks are used for 1 Gbps
operation though for 10/100 Mbps operation, only a single clock edge is used. Extracts the in-band (link speed, link status, and duplex mode) status signals from the PHY and provides them to the MAC for link detection. The following figure shows the position of the RGMII block relative to the MAC and RGMII PHY. The RGMII block is placed between the GMII and the PHY to translate the GMII signals to RGMII signals.
**Figure 10.29 RGMII Interface**

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.30 RGMII Interface Pinout Diagram**
##### 10.6.2.3.3 IEEE 1588 Timestamp Support
The DWC_ether_qos supports the IEEE 1588-2002 (version 1) and IEEE 1588-2008 (version 2). The
- IEEE 1588-2002 supports PTP transported over UDP/IP and IEEE 1588-2008 supports PTP
transported over Ethernet. The DWC_ether_qos provides programmable support for both standards. The controller supports the following features: Provides an option to take snapshot of all packets or only PTP type packets. Provides an option to take the snapshot based on the clock type: ordinary, boundary, end-to- end transparent, and peer-to-peer transparent. Provides an option to select the node to be a master or slave for ordinary and boundary clock.
- Identifies the PTP message type, version, and PTP payload in packets sent directly over
Ethernet and sends the status. Provides an option to measure sub-second time in digital or binary format. Supports both one-step and two-step PTP Timestamping. Provides the flexibility to program the start or stop time, width, and interval of the pulse generated on the ptp_pps_o output. Provides capability to generate PTP Ethernet messages periodically or from the application, or based on reception of a particular PTP message.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
##### 10.6.2.3.4 Multiple Channels and Queues
- The DWC_ether_qos supports up to eight queues and channels on the Tx and Rx paths. The
following figure shows the architecture of DWC_ether_qos with multiple queues and channels.
- In half duplex configuration (applicable for 10/100M mode), only Q0/Ch0 should be enabled
In full duplex operation, any queue/s can be enabled. Tx queue and Rx queue should be 2 * maximum packet size.
**Figure 10.31 DWC_ether_QOS Architecture**
In the Transmit direction, the DWC_ether_qos supports up to eight Transmit DMA and Transmit queues. The number of Tx DMA channels is equal to the number of Tx queues, and is a direct one- to-one mapping. This enables the interleaving of packet/data transfer of multiple Tx DMA on the host/system bus and each Tx queue is reserved for the corresponding Tx DMA. Therefore, the integrity of packet transfer by each Tx DMA is maintained in the Tx queue. The Tx queue enables efficient utilization of the host bus for data transfers among multiple Tx DMA without depending on the packet length, Transmit buffer availability and so on.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description In the receive direction, the DWC_ether_qos controller provides multiple Rx queues to support classification and distribution of ingress packets. The MAC receiver pushes the ingress packets to the Rx queues based on packet type (tagged, untagged, multicast, PTP, AVB, DCB, and so on), tag priorities, MAC packet filter results, preemptable, or express packet, and so on. The settings of the MAC_RxQ_Ctrl* and MAC_Packet_Filter register fields control the distribution. Any of the Rx DMA can service the packets from any Rx queue . All the packets of Rx queues are stored in a shared
- RXFIFO buffer in MTL. The Rx scheduler selects the Rx queue whose packet data is to be
transferred to the destination Rx DMA, which then forwards the packet data to the host memory. The DWC_ether_qos DMA arbiter supports two types of arbitration: fixed priority and weighted round-robin. The DMA arbiter performs the arbitration between the Tx and Rx paths of DMA channels for accessing descriptors and data buffers. The DA bit of the DMA_Mode register specifies the arbitration scheme (fixed or weighted round-robin) between the Tx and Rx DMA of a channel.
##### 10.6.2.3.5 Traffic Shapers
- Queue Modes and Priorities
Transmit queues can be divided into generic, DCB, and AV traffic types.
- Generic queues are serviced in WRR (Weighted Round Robin) or WSP (Weighted Strict
Priority) order. DCB queues are serviced in WRR, WSP, DWRR, WFQ order. AV queues are serviced using CBS (Credit-Based Shaper) or SP (Strict Priority).
- The priority of a Tx queue can be programmed in the MAC_TxQ_Prty_Map0 and
MAC_TxQ_Prty_Map1 registers. Similarly, the priority of an Rx queue can be programmed in the corresponding field of MAC_RxQ_Ctrl2 and MAC_RxQ_Ctrl3 registers. The priority should be assigned in the following order: 1. 2. 3.
- AV queue (high priority)
- DCB queue (medium priority)
- Best-effort queue (low priority)
The software should put packets with correct priorities in the respective programmed queue on Tx side. The MAC uses the programmed priorities for blocking the Tx queues when a PFC packet is received. If a single queue is selected for multiple priorities and PFC is enabled, the entire queue is paused if one or more priorities in the queue are paused. Further details on DCB queues and AV queues are provided in the following sections.
- Data Center Bridging
The Data Center Bridging feature supports three types of algorithms.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Weighted Round Robin: In this mode, all queues are serviced in round-robin order based on
weight setting.
- Deficit Weighted Round Robin: In this mode, queues are assigned a weight based on the
percentage of configured bandwidth. A deficit counter holds the credit for transmission.
- Weighted Fair Queuing: In this mode, each queue is assigned a weight based on the
percentage of the configured bandwidth. The controller schedules the packet with the fastest finish time to start transmission first.
- Queues assigned to operate in DCB mode are scheduled using the defined algorithms. These
queues are also capable of supporting PFC-based flow control.
- Audio Video Bridging
- The DWC_ether_qos supports the AV data transfer in 100 Mbps and 1,000 Mbps modes. The AV
feature enables transmission of time-sensitive traffic over bridged local area networks (LANs). The following standards define various aspects of the AV feature implementation: IEEE 802.1Qav-2009: Supports forwarding and Queuing for Time-Sensitive Streams.
- IEEE 802.1Qat-2009: Permits the network resources to be reserved for specific traffic
streams traversing a bridged local area network.
- IEEE 802.1AS-2011: Specifies the protocol and procedures used to ensure that the
synchronization requirements are met for time-sensitive applications. Queues assigned to operate in AV mode, support CBS (Credit-Based Shaper as specified in IEEE 802.1-Qav), or SP scheduling algorithms.
##### 10.6.2.3.6 Time Sensitive Networking
There are many applications that require predictable network latency. Some of these applications include audio and video, initially defined in Audio Video Bridging (AVB) standards, automotive sensor control networks as well as advanced driver assistance. To support tight time tolerance as well as predictable network latency requirements of these applications, the Ether QOS implements the following features in hardware.
- Enhancements to Scheduled Traffic (EST) as defined in IEEE 802.1Qbv
- Frame preemption and Interspersing Express Traffic as defined in IEEE 802.1Qbu and IEEE
802.3br
- Time-Based Scheduling to enable above defined features
- Enhancements to Scheduled Traffic
The IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015 defines the schedule for each of the queues on every egress port, which makes the implementation aware of traffic arrival schedule. This information can be used to block the lower priority traffic from transmission in this time window/slot. This ensures that scheduled

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description traffic is forwarded from sender to receiver through all the network nodes with a deterministic delay. This behavior is shown in the following figure.
**Figure 10.32 Scheduled Traffic**
As per the standard, the following updates are needed in the Transmit Scheduler to support EST.
- Implementation of Gate Control List (GCL)
- Enforcing gate controls in the scheduler
- Accounting for Gate Open (O) duty cycle in the computation of idleSlope (CBS)
The controller supports all 3 of these requirements in hardware. When EST is used in isolation, the Gate Control List manages the final open/close state of the Queues along with the checks carried out by the Transmission Selection Algorithm in MTL. As the Gate Controls operate on a predefined repetitive schedule, it is recommended to use Strict Priority or Credit Based Shaper (CBS) scheduling algorithms.
- Frame preemption and Interspersing Express Traffic
Preemption permits one or more higher priority (express) frames to interrupt the transmission of a lower priority (preemptable) frame; the preemptable frame transmission is resumed and completed after the express frame transmission is complete. To support frame preemption, the following two abstractions of the MAC are used: A preemptable MAC, called pMAC, which carries the preemptable traffic. An express MAC, called eMAC, which carries the express traffic. pMAC and eMAC operate in parallel as shown in the following figure.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.33 Preemptable and Express Traffic**
In the implementation, only parts of the MAC that hold the state during preemption is replicated and represented as pMAC and eMAC. The MAC uses the following two ways to puts on hold, the transmission of the preemtable traffic, in the presence of express traffic: The MTL scheduler interrupts the preemptable traffic that is currently being transmitted. When the preemption capability is active, the MAC interrupts the transmission and reception of preemptable frames. Zero or more express frames follow a preempted fragment, before the continuation fragments. The preemptable frame can be fragmented any number of times, however, the minimum final and nonfinal fragment length criterion must be is met. However, interleaving of more than one preemptable packet is not permitted. This implies that if an express packet fragments a preemptable packet, another preemptable packet cannot be transferred until all the remaining fragments of the first preempted packet are transferred. The MTL scheduler prevents starting the transmission of preemptable traffic. When the preemption capability is inactive, the pMAC entity is disabled and only express traffic is transmitted or received. Frame preemption feature can be enabled by setting EFPE field of the MAC_FPE_CTRL_STS register.
- Time-Based Scheduling
- To support the strict transmit time requirements of EST, the controller adds a Time-Based
Scheduling feature. In this feature, the transmit DMA fetches the packet from the host memory for transmission at a designated time. This helps the software to set up the Transmit descriptors in advance even before the packet is ready/available. The following “Time” parameters control the queue behavior and enable the controller to adhere to strict time requirements of EST: Launch Time: The time beyond which MTL can schedule the packet for transmission.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Fetch Time: The time beyond which the Tx DMA can schedule a packet-fetch from the host
memory. Expiry Time: The time beyond which the MTL drops the packet. The Time-Based Scheduler does not directly influence the Transmission Selection Algorithm but has an indirect influence as it determines if a queue is eligible to participate in the scheduling. If a frame of a specific queue has a valid Launch Time, the Time-Based Scheduler ensures that the frame participates in Transmit Scheduling (TRC Scheduler) only after the Launch time has elapsed.
- TCP/IP Offload Features
Communication protocols such as TCP and UDP implement checksum fields, which help determine the integrity of data transmitted over a network. The most widespread use of Ethernet is to encapsulate TCP and UDP over IP datagrams. Therefore, the MAC has an optional Checksum Offload Engine (COE) to support checksum calculation and insertion in the transmit path and error detection in the receive path. Details on various offload features provided in the controller are explained in the following sections.
- Transmit Checksum Offload Engine
The MAC has a Checksum Offload Engine (COE) to support checksum calculation and insertion in the Transmit path, using which, the software offloads the task of checksum insertion to the hardware. In the Transmit path MAC calculates the checksum and inserts it in the Tx packet. This feature helps to reduce the load on the software and can improve the overall throughput of the system.
- The Checksum Offload Engine (COE) supports the following checksum offloads on the transmit
path.
- IPv4 Checksum Offload
- TCP/UDP/ICMP checksum offload (not true for IPv4 fragment)
The L3/L4 checksum can be controlled for each packet using the following options:
- CIC bits (Transmit Descriptor TDES3 Bits[17:16]). Software needs to program these bits to
have checksum generation and insertion in Tx frame.
- Checksum insertion is enabled for tunneled packets when VNE bit of MAC_Tx_Configuration
register is set and the VNP=3’b011 in the Tx Descriptor of the corresponding packet.
- Setting TSC bit of MAC_Timestamp_Control: This bit enables checksum correction during
- OST for PTP over UDP/IPv4 packets. Software needs to set this bit to keep the UDP
checksum correct for changes made to origin timestamp and/or correction field as part of one-step timestamp operation. This bit is only applicable for PTP packets.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Receive Checksum Offload Engine
Similar to the Transmit Checksum Offload engine, the Receive Checksum Offload Engine detects the following checksum errors. IPv4 Checksum Offload:
- TCP/UDP/ICMP checksum offload (not true for IPv4 fragment)
The Receive Checksum Offload can be controlled for each packet using the following options:
- Receive Checksum Offload can be enabled by setting IPC bit in MAC_Rx_Configuration
register.
- TCP/IP Checksum Error packet drop control: Setting
- MTL_RxQ(i=0:9)_Operation_Mode.DIS_TCP_EF bit disables dropping of checksum error
packets on Receive. When DIS_TCP_EF bit is set, the MAC does not drop the packets, which only have the errors detected by the Receive Checksum Offload engine. Checksum verification for different types of tunneled packets can be controlled as well using provided register controls.
- The software can enable/disable checksum error-related interrupts from MMC Counters
through MMC_IPC_Rx_Interrupt_Mask register. By default, all interrupts are enabled.
- TCP/IP Segmentation Offload (TSO) Engine
In the TCP segmentation offload (TSO) feature, the DMA splits a large TCP packet into multiple small packets and passes these packets to the MTL as shown in the following figure.
**Figure 10.34 TCP Segmentation Offload Overview**
The TSO operation flow is explained in the following figure.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.35 TSO Operation Flow**
The application must create the header in Buffer 1 of the first descriptor of the packet to be segmented and provide the header length in TDES2 of the first descriptor (FD = 1). When the FD bit is set, the DMA reads the header from the header buffer to which the TDES0 is pointing. Buffer 2 of the first descriptor can be used for payload and TDES0 and TDES1 of subsequent descriptors.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description For subsequent descriptors (FD = 0), the address to which the TDES0 and TDES1 are pointing is treated as payload buffer address of the same packet.
**Figure 10.36 Head and Payload Fields of Segmented Packets**
- UDP/IPv4 Fragment Offload (UFO) Engine
The UFO breaks down a large UDP packet into smaller packets using IPv4 fragmentation. Each IPv4 fragment contains the following header or payload information:
- Ethernet Header
- IP Header
- UDP Header (only in the first fragment)
- UDP Payload
- In this mode, the MSS field in the context Descriptor (TDES2[17:0]) and DMA_CH(#)_Control
register, are interpreted as Maximum Fragmentation Size (MFS). This is the maximum size of the payload after the IPv4 header in each fragment. When UFO is enabled, the MSS field must be programmed in multiples of 8 bytes, because, the IP fragments offset is defined in terms of 8 bytes. UFO functions in two modes.
- UFO with valid UDP checksum
- UFO with no UDP checksum
- Using the IPv4 ARP Offload Engine
DWC_ether_qos supports the Address Recognition Protocol (ARP) Offload for IPv4 packets. This feature allows the processing of the IPv4 ARP request packet in the receive path and generating corresponding ARP response packet in the transmit path. DWC_ether_qos generates the ARP reply packets for appropriate ARP request packets. The ARP packet for IPv4 is L2 layer packet with Length/Type of 0x0806.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
##### 10.6.2.3.7 Flow Control
- Enabling Flow Controls
The flow control in the Tx and Rx directions can be enabled using the following controls. To enable the Transmit Flow Control independently for each Rx queue, set the TFE bit in the MAC_Q#_Tx_Flow_Ctrl register. To enable the Pause Flow Control, set the RFE bit in the MAC_Rx_Flow_Ctrl register.
- Full Duplex Mode
In full-duplex mode, the DWC_ether_qos uses one of the following packet types for flow control:
- IEEE 802.3x Pause packets
- Priority flow control (PFC) packets
The PFC packets are used only when the Enable Data Center Bridging option is selected. The PFCE bit of MAC_Rx_Flow_Ctrl register determines whether the PFC packets or the IEEE 802.3x Pause Control packets are used for flow control. If the PFCE bit is set, the MAC sends the PFC packets.
- Half Duplex Mode
In half-duplex mode, the MAC uses the deferral mechanism for the flow control (back pressure).
- When the application requests to stop receiving packets, the MAC sends a JAM pattern of 32
bytes when it senses a packet reception, provided the transmit flow control is enabled. This results in a collision and the remote station back off. If the application requests a packet to be transmitted, it is scheduled and transmitted even when the back pressure is activated. If the back pressure is kept activated for a long time (and more than 16 consecutive collision events occur), the remote stations abort the transmission because of excessive collisions.
- Virtualization
The Ethernet Controller supports hardware-assisted virtualization (multiple operating systems share underlying hardware). Hypervisor is responsible to allocate queues and channels to different
- VMs. The Resource Manager (RM) or one trusted OS programs the common registers shared by
multiple VMs. The host accesses controller registers over the APB bus. Each VM is allocated a 64 kB address window in this interface for it to program its registers. Similarly, the RM is provided a separate 64 kB register window to program common registers. A given VM only has access to the registers allocated to it and cannot access another VMs register space.
- Registers Address Space
- The following figure shows the address map of ETHER_QOS. The figure shows how the register
space is mapped to various VMs, RM, and HV. They are physically aliased at 64 KB to enable easy mapping in the host MMU. VMs have access and visibility to only a register space marked in blue.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description Access to these spaces by specific VMs are controlled by the RM by configurating appropriate mapping register in the ETHER_QOS. Other register spaces are only assigned to the RM. The RM can also access all the registers that are accessible by VMs.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.37 Address Map of ETHER_QOS**

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description The following register access operations are considered illegal operations:
- One Guest OS trying to access other Guest OS registers
Any Guest OS trying to access registers belonging to RM or HV page.
- RM trying to access registers in HV page
HV trying to access registers in RM or any Guest OS page. The Guest OS illegal access status is captured in the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_APB_ERR_STATUS_0
The option to generate APB slave error for guest OS illegal access can be enabled by programming the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_APB_ERR_CTRL_0
Similarly, RM or HV illegal access status is captured in the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_HV_APB_ERR_STATUS_0
- The option to generate an APB slave error for RM or HV illegal access can be enabled by
programming the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_HV_APB_ERR_CTRL_0
The ETHER_QOS can support up to maximum of four guest OSes, 1 RM, and 1 HV. Therefore, six 64 KB pages [4 VMs and 1RM and 1HV] of address space is needed. The RM page should have access to a whole region. If virtualization is not employed, the [only] operating system could operate in the HV/RM register window directly. The implementation is shown below.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.38 Register Windows Design**
- PTP Register Access from VMs
The PTP registers require common read access by all VMs. Therefore, these registers are placed in a separate 64 kB address window, which is accessible by all VMs. ETHER_QOS VM5 AMAP page is used for this purpose.
- System Memory Protection mechanism for Ether QOS Controller
Since the DMA controller of the Ether QOS generates memory requests on AXI using AXI_ID[3:1], which is based on issuing channel number, a conversion table is provided at the interface to convert AXI_ID[3:1] to ASID (address space identifier for different VMs in the Ethernet Controller) used by the SMMU. Hypervisor programs the conversions table before the Controller’s VMs issues access to system memory. Generally, a guest OS memory space is protected by the CPU’s MMU (for CPU-generated requests) or by the MC’s SMMU (for non-CPU generated requests). 1GMAC’s DMA controller makes requests directly to system memory over its AXI interface.
- Assuming 1GMAC is performing DMA on behalf of multiple guest OSes; each memory request has

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description to be annotated with the correct ASID (address space identifier) to enable SMMU to determine whether 1GMAC can perform the desired operation.
- The AXI ID [3:1] issued on the AXI master interface corresponds to the DMA channel number
associated with the request. A mapping table converts AXI ID [3:1] to ASID. The mapping table is mapped to 64 KB HV page. The reset value of ASIDs is 0.
- Interrupt Management
Ether QOS provides per VM interrupt besides providing a common interrupt that provides common interrupt status. The following figure shows how these interrupts are wired to LIC.
**Figure 10.39 Interrupt Management**

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- Descriptor Prefetch
The Ether QOS supports a descriptor cache. When the descriptor cache operation is enabled, the
- DMA uses the memory for transmit and receive descriptor cache. Each Tx/Rx DMA channel can
cache multiple descriptors based on the values of the following parameters:
- DWC_EQOS_DCTX_DEP: The value of this parameter determines the number of descriptors
that can be fetched for every Tx DMA. The maximum value is 16.
- DWC_EQOS_DCRX_DEP: The value of this parameter determines the number of descriptors
that can be fetched for every Rx DMA. The maximum value is 16.}(@{Key=10.6.2; Title=1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description; Body=#### 10.6.2.1 Overview
Ether_QOS is the 1G Ethernet Controller that supports 10M/100M/1G line speeds over its RGMII interface. Ether_QOS also supports MACsec. The ETHER_QOS block diagram is shown below. The IP is configured with an AXI4 master interface for system memory access and APB4 slave interfaces for CSR access from the host software.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.25 ETHER_QOS Block Diagram**
- The 1GMAC DMA controller has eight receive and eight transmit channels. The DMA controller
reads data from system memory (through AXI4 master interface) into transmit (Tx) memory buffer. The MTL and MAC blocks manage the transmission of data from the Tx buffer to the network. The data received on the network is stored into receive (Rx) memory buffer of the controller. The Rx DMA controller writes the Rx buffer data to the system memory (through AXI4 master interface). The 1GMAC micro-architecture provides 1GMAC access to six memory buffers:
- TSO memory: 8 kB of on chip memory to store headers for Transmit Segmentation Offload
- Tx Memory: 64 kB of on-chip memory to store transmit packets
- Rx Memory: 64 kB of on-chip memory to store received packets
- EST memory: 2 kB Memory for Descriptor Cache
- RXP memory: 3 kB of Receiver Parser memory
- Descriptor Cache: 4 kB
- The Ethernet data from 1GMAC is connected to MACSEC IP, which implements MACSEC ICV
generation and checking in compliance with IEEE802.1AE. The output of the MACSEC IP is connected to the pads and then reach out off chip PHY. The 1GMAC has multiple interrupts for various events that can occur in its MAC or in its DMA controller. The controller also generates fault

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description signals that is connected to HSM (Hardware Safety Manager) block on the chip to report faults in Ethernet Controller logic.
#### 10.6.2.2 Interfaces
##### 10.6.2.2.1 Internal Interfaces
- AXI4 Master Interface
- The 1GMAC DMA controller issues requests on an AXI4 master interface to access system
memory.
- Table 10.12 ETHER_QOS AXI parameters
#
- Parameter
- Size
- AXI Address Width
40 bit
- AXI Data Width
128 bit
- AXI Master Bus ID Width
8 bit
- AXI Maximum Outstanding Read Requests
- AXI Maximum Outstanding Write Requests
- AXI Clock Frequency
125 MHz
- APB4 Slave Interface
1GMAC control interface supports APB4 slave interface. The slave interface uses the Async Slave bridge to ensure that there is no clock dependency with respect to CBB (Control Back Bone) clock for internal functionality. Block Level Firewall logic in Control Backbone provides access protection between Hypervisor, Resource Manager, and Virtual Machine pages. The IP can generate an APB slave error for illegal access based on configuration setting.
- Interrupt Interface
Ether QOS provides seven interrupts, as shown in the following table, for its internal IPs.
- Table 10.13 ETHER_QOS Consolidated LIC Interrupts
- Output
- Description
eqos_common_intr_o
- Common aggregated interrupt of
sbd_intr_o, lpi_intr_o, pmt_intr_o, safety interrupts eqos_MACsec_secure_intr
- Secured interrupt status from MACSEC

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Output
- Description
eqos_MACsec_non_secure_intr
- Non-Secured interrupt status from MACSEC
eqos_vm_intr_o[3:0] Per VM interrupt pin.
- Individual TX/RX DMA channel interrupts mapped to VM
interrupts
- HSM Fault Interrupt Interface
- ETHER_QOS supports multiple safety faults interrupts generated by its internal IPs. These
interrupts are consolidated into three fault interrupts and sent to the HSM (Hardware Safety Manager).
- Table 10.14 ETHER_QOS Consolidated HSM Interrupts
- Output
- Description
eqos_hsm_correctable_error
- Consolidated correctable error from ETHER_QOS and
- ETHER_QOS wrapper modules
eqos_hsm_uncorrectable_error
- Consolidated uncorrectable error from 1GMAC and ETHER_QOS
wrapper modules eqos_macsec_hsm_uncorrectable_error
- Consolidated uncorrectable error from 1GMAC MACsec
- Timestamp Interface
The 1GMAC controller provides various signals shown in the following table to Synchronize TSC
- Module with received PTP timestamp value. The upper 32 bits of timestamp corresponds to
number of seconds and the lower 32 bit corresponds to nanoseconds granularity. Internal timestamp Controller (TSC) logic uses this timestamp to synchronize its internal clock.
- Table 10.15 Timestamp Interface
- IP/Wrapper
- Signal Name
- Di
r
- Description
- Usage/Remarks
ptp_timestamp_o[ 63:0]
- Ou
t
- Reference Time Output. This bus provides the System Time
Output when it is generated internally.
- Used to capture the PTP and
TSC value simultaneously. ptp_pps_o
- Ou
t
- Pulse Per Second. This signal is high based on the PPS mode
selected in the MAC_PPS_Control register. When PPS is programmed in Media Clock recovery Mode, this port indicates the recovered clock.
- Sent to TSC. Used by TSC for
global reference and correction of TSC time. ptp_aux_ts_trig_i[ 0]
- In
- Auxiliary timestamp Trigger. When this signal goes high
(rising edge), a snapshot of the System Time is taken and stored in the auxiliary timestamp FIFO.
- Used to capture the PTP
timestamp snapshot in the
- AUX timestamp FIFO

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Pad Calibration Interface
The RGMII pads in Ether QOS support drive strength compensation. Pad Calibration Logic is used to provide this compensation. Perform a PAD calibration when any of the following conditions occur: Before initializing the EQOS MAC controller. When there is a change in speed from 10 Mbps to either 100 Mbps or 1,000 Mbps. If there is a temperature variation of more than 35 degrees Celsius. Note: Before PAD calibration starts, it is recommended that RGMII and MDIO interfaces are in IDLE state. Any ongoing RGMII traffic must be stopped, otherwise communication errors might occur. The NVIDIA EQOS driver software handles the PAD calibration mechanism, which already takes care of the above-mentioned conditions.
- Calibration Process
Compare the PMOS driving impedance with an external precision resistance of 50 Ω ± 1% lumped to ground. Then use the calibrated PMOS driving impedance as a reference to proceed the calibration of NMOS driving impedance. As shown in following diagram, input A is first set to ‘1’ to charge the pad I/O while NMOS driver is deactivated. The number of PMOS fingers is turned on sequentially by increasing the DRVUP codes to raise the total current flowing through the resistor. The resulting I*R at I/O is then compared with a 0.5*VDDP reference. When I/O reaches 0.5*VDDP, ZI turns into ‘1’ and the PMOS calibration ends. Similarly, for NMOS calibration, A is being set to ‘0’ to discharge I/O with partially turned on PMOS fingers based on the DRVUP codes obtained in PMOS calibration. By gradually increasing the DRVDN codes (hence the number of NMOS fingers) IO_N drops and finally ZI flips to ‘0’ when IO_N reaches 0.5*VDDP. This completes the calibration process.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.26 Calibration Process**
- Calibration Controller
The calibration controller is implemented as per the above-mentioned process. The calibration controller uses ‘usec_toggle’ pulse sourced from TIMER module. It toggles for every micro-second, which is used as micro-second reference in maintaining the micro-second counter in calibration engine. The FSM implementation is shown in the following diagram.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.27 Calibration Controller**
##### 10.6.2.2.2 External Interfaces
The Ether QOS pad logic can support 1.8 V operation. The interface constitutes 16 pins (RGMII Interface: 12 pins, MDIO Interface: 2 pins, GPIO Interface: 2 pins). Both INTR and RESET are GPIO only. The PMC handles the INTR pin. The INTR pin is wake capable.
- RGMII
RGMII has 12 pin interfaces; 6 are related to TX and other 6 are related to RX interface. The interface operates in DDR mode. This interface supports the Original RGMII Timing mode though the PHY/Switch component interfacing with ETHER_QOS must support RGMII-ID timing mode to avoid Clock Delay in relation to the data on the PCB. The data rates of this interface are 10/100/1000Mbps at 2.5/25/125 MHz respectively with a 4-bit data interface at DDR speeds simultaneously for both Tx and Rx transfers.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- MDIO
This is a 2-signal interface to PHY to access the PHY control and status registers. The interface constitutes a clock line at 2.5 MHz from the SoC to the PHY and the other line is a bidirectional data line. The MDC Clock line can support frequencies from 2.5 MHz to 25 MHz. The ETHER_QOS acts as the master to this interface.
- INTR by External PHY
This signal is used by the external PHY to communicate to the SoC for its internally generated interrupts--that requires the attention of the software. Then software uses the MDIO interface to access the PHY control and status registers to service the interrupts.
- RESET to External PHY
The RESET pin to external Ethernet PHY, which is a GPIO pin, is used to reset the external PHY.. The software controls the RESET pin. As part of the PHY initialization sequence, the RESET pin GPIO is programmed to apply the reset to external PHY and to recover from errors. It is an active low signal driven from the GPIO controller module.
#### 10.6.2.3 Features
##### 10.6.2.3.1 Power Management
- Wake On LAN
- The Ether QOS supports GPIO-based remote wake-up function. Attached PHY, on receiving the
Wake Up packet can generate Wake up trigger signal on connected GPIO. The PMC uses it to wake up the Ethernet Controller.
- Energy-Efficient Ethernet
The (EEE) mode is compliant with the IEEE 802.3az-2010 standard. It is primarily targeted to save power in the Ethernet port when there is no traffic on the line. In this mode, the host indicates to the far-end that it does not have any packets to transmit for the near future. The host puts the transmitter port (MAC Controller, SERDES, and attached PHY) into low-power mode. Similarly, the receiver port can also be put into low-power mode when the far-end host indicates that it does not have any traffic to transfer. This gives significant saving of power in the Ethernet port (mainly in the PHY) with intermittent and bursty traffic profile. The triggering of entry and exit out of the EEE mode is controlled by the MAC and is supported within the Ether QOS. Simultaneous operation of the EEE mode along with any or both the other power-saving modes is also supported in DWC_ether_qos.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Packet Filtering
The following figure shows the packet-filtering sequence on received packets.
**Figure 10.28 Packet Filtering Sequence**
The preceding filtering sequence is valid when all the filters (L2, VLAN, L3, L4) are active. If any of the layer filters are not enabled, that filter is bypassed and the subsequent filter is applied. A packet that fails any of the filters is discarded. However, the discarded packet can be forwarded to the host based on the register control. For example, when Bit RA of MAC_Packet_Filter register is set to 1, all discarded packets are forwarded to the host but with its packet status indicating the specific filter failure.
- Ethernet Source or Destination Address Filters
The filters support various kinds of Ethernet Source and Destination address-based filtering operations. Some of them are defined:
- Unicast Destination Address based filtering: Both perfect and hash filter-based checks are
provided on up to 128 MAC Addresses.
- Multicast Destination Address Filtering: The multicast address is compared with the
programmed MAC destination address registers (1–31).

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Broadcast Address filtering: The MAC does not filter any broadcast packets by default. To
program the MAC to reject all broadcast packets, set the DBF bit in MAC_Packet_Filter register.
- Unicast Source Address Filtering: The MAC can perform perfect filtering based on the
source address field of received packets. Inverse Filtering: For DA and SA filtering, the filter-match result at the final output can be inverted.
- VLAN Filters
In VLAN tag perfect filtering, the MAC compares the VLAN tag of received packet and provides the
- VLAN packet status to the application. The source or destination address (if enabled) has
precedence over the VLAN tag filters. This means that a packet that fails the source or destination address filter is dropped irrespective of the VLAN tag filter results. The MAC Receiver can classify the received packets based on VLAN Tag and steer them to a specific Rx DMA channel. Each of the VLAN Tags has individual control over stripping. The programming options of always strip, never strip, strip on pass, and strip on fail are available. Inner or Outer VLAN tag stripping is based on the pass or fail results of the individual tag.
- IP Source or Destination Address Filters
- The DWC_ether_qos supports perfect matching or inverse matching for IP source address and
destination address. In addition, you can match the complete IP address or mask the lower bits matching, that is, compare all bits of the address except the specified lower mask bits.
- TCP or UDP Source or Destination Port Filters
- The DWC_ether_qos supports perfect matching or inverse matching for TCP or UDP Source and
Destination Port numbers.
##### 10.6.2.3.2 Using PHY Interfaces
The main PHY interfaces are described in the following sections.
- Station Management Agent (SMA)
The application can access the PHY registers through the SMA. The SMA is a two-wire Station Management interface (MIM).
- Preamble Suppression
The IEEE standard specifies 32-bit preamble (all-ones) for the MDIO frames. The DWC_ether_qos provides controls to support preamble suppression. DWC_ether_qos transmits MDIO frames with

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description only one preamble bit. The preamble suppression can be enabled by setting the PSE bit of the MAC_MDIO_Address register.
- MDIO Transaction completion Interrupt
DWC_ether_qos can generate an interrupt on completion of MDIO read or write transactions. Therefore, the application does not need to poll the GMII Busy field of the MAC_MDIO_Address register to know the completion of MDIO commands.
- RGMII (Reduced Gigabit Media Independent) Interface
The RGMII Interface to the Physical Layer is capable of working at 1Gb/s, 100Mb/s and 10Mb/s. It supports MACsec when the link is operating at 1 Gbps speed. MACsec is not supported for 10 Mbps and 100 Mbps operations. The RGMII module is implemented in DWC_ether_qos to reduce the pin count as mentioned in the RGMII specification. The RGMII specification reduces the pin count of the interconnection between the MAC and the PHY for GMII and MII interfaces. To achieve this, the datapath and control signals are reduced and multiplexed together with both edges of the Transmit and Receive clocks. For Gigabit operation, the clocks operate at 125 MHz; for 10/100 operation, the clock rates are 2.5 MHz/25 MHz.
- The RGMII module is instantiated between the GMII of the MAC and the PHY to translate the
control and data signals between the GMII and RGMII protocols. The RGMII block has the following characteristics:
- Supports 10 Mbps, 100 Mbps, and 1,000 Mbps operation rates
- Requires no extra clock because both edges of the incoming clocks are used for 1 Gbps
operation though for 10/100 Mbps operation, only a single clock edge is used. Extracts the in-band (link speed, link status, and duplex mode) status signals from the PHY and provides them to the MAC for link detection. The following figure shows the position of the RGMII block relative to the MAC and RGMII PHY. The RGMII block is placed between the GMII and the PHY to translate the GMII signals to RGMII signals.
**Figure 10.29 RGMII Interface**

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.30 RGMII Interface Pinout Diagram**
##### 10.6.2.3.3 IEEE 1588 Timestamp Support
The DWC_ether_qos supports the IEEE 1588-2002 (version 1) and IEEE 1588-2008 (version 2). The
- IEEE 1588-2002 supports PTP transported over UDP/IP and IEEE 1588-2008 supports PTP
transported over Ethernet. The DWC_ether_qos provides programmable support for both standards. The controller supports the following features: Provides an option to take snapshot of all packets or only PTP type packets. Provides an option to take the snapshot based on the clock type: ordinary, boundary, end-to- end transparent, and peer-to-peer transparent. Provides an option to select the node to be a master or slave for ordinary and boundary clock.
- Identifies the PTP message type, version, and PTP payload in packets sent directly over
Ethernet and sends the status. Provides an option to measure sub-second time in digital or binary format. Supports both one-step and two-step PTP Timestamping. Provides the flexibility to program the start or stop time, width, and interval of the pulse generated on the ptp_pps_o output. Provides capability to generate PTP Ethernet messages periodically or from the application, or based on reception of a particular PTP message.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
##### 10.6.2.3.4 Multiple Channels and Queues
- The DWC_ether_qos supports up to eight queues and channels on the Tx and Rx paths. The
following figure shows the architecture of DWC_ether_qos with multiple queues and channels.
- In half duplex configuration (applicable for 10/100M mode), only Q0/Ch0 should be enabled
In full duplex operation, any queue/s can be enabled. Tx queue and Rx queue should be 2 * maximum packet size.
**Figure 10.31 DWC_ether_QOS Architecture**
In the Transmit direction, the DWC_ether_qos supports up to eight Transmit DMA and Transmit queues. The number of Tx DMA channels is equal to the number of Tx queues, and is a direct one- to-one mapping. This enables the interleaving of packet/data transfer of multiple Tx DMA on the host/system bus and each Tx queue is reserved for the corresponding Tx DMA. Therefore, the integrity of packet transfer by each Tx DMA is maintained in the Tx queue. The Tx queue enables efficient utilization of the host bus for data transfers among multiple Tx DMA without depending on the packet length, Transmit buffer availability and so on.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description In the receive direction, the DWC_ether_qos controller provides multiple Rx queues to support classification and distribution of ingress packets. The MAC receiver pushes the ingress packets to the Rx queues based on packet type (tagged, untagged, multicast, PTP, AVB, DCB, and so on), tag priorities, MAC packet filter results, preemptable, or express packet, and so on. The settings of the MAC_RxQ_Ctrl* and MAC_Packet_Filter register fields control the distribution. Any of the Rx DMA can service the packets from any Rx queue . All the packets of Rx queues are stored in a shared
- RXFIFO buffer in MTL. The Rx scheduler selects the Rx queue whose packet data is to be
transferred to the destination Rx DMA, which then forwards the packet data to the host memory. The DWC_ether_qos DMA arbiter supports two types of arbitration: fixed priority and weighted round-robin. The DMA arbiter performs the arbitration between the Tx and Rx paths of DMA channels for accessing descriptors and data buffers. The DA bit of the DMA_Mode register specifies the arbitration scheme (fixed or weighted round-robin) between the Tx and Rx DMA of a channel.
##### 10.6.2.3.5 Traffic Shapers
- Queue Modes and Priorities
Transmit queues can be divided into generic, DCB, and AV traffic types.
- Generic queues are serviced in WRR (Weighted Round Robin) or WSP (Weighted Strict
Priority) order. DCB queues are serviced in WRR, WSP, DWRR, WFQ order. AV queues are serviced using CBS (Credit-Based Shaper) or SP (Strict Priority).
- The priority of a Tx queue can be programmed in the MAC_TxQ_Prty_Map0 and
MAC_TxQ_Prty_Map1 registers. Similarly, the priority of an Rx queue can be programmed in the corresponding field of MAC_RxQ_Ctrl2 and MAC_RxQ_Ctrl3 registers. The priority should be assigned in the following order: 1. 2. 3.
- AV queue (high priority)
- DCB queue (medium priority)
- Best-effort queue (low priority)
The software should put packets with correct priorities in the respective programmed queue on Tx side. The MAC uses the programmed priorities for blocking the Tx queues when a PFC packet is received. If a single queue is selected for multiple priorities and PFC is enabled, the entire queue is paused if one or more priorities in the queue are paused. Further details on DCB queues and AV queues are provided in the following sections.
- Data Center Bridging
The Data Center Bridging feature supports three types of algorithms.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Weighted Round Robin: In this mode, all queues are serviced in round-robin order based on
weight setting.
- Deficit Weighted Round Robin: In this mode, queues are assigned a weight based on the
percentage of configured bandwidth. A deficit counter holds the credit for transmission.
- Weighted Fair Queuing: In this mode, each queue is assigned a weight based on the
percentage of the configured bandwidth. The controller schedules the packet with the fastest finish time to start transmission first.
- Queues assigned to operate in DCB mode are scheduled using the defined algorithms. These
queues are also capable of supporting PFC-based flow control.
- Audio Video Bridging
- The DWC_ether_qos supports the AV data transfer in 100 Mbps and 1,000 Mbps modes. The AV
feature enables transmission of time-sensitive traffic over bridged local area networks (LANs). The following standards define various aspects of the AV feature implementation: IEEE 802.1Qav-2009: Supports forwarding and Queuing for Time-Sensitive Streams.
- IEEE 802.1Qat-2009: Permits the network resources to be reserved for specific traffic
streams traversing a bridged local area network.
- IEEE 802.1AS-2011: Specifies the protocol and procedures used to ensure that the
synchronization requirements are met for time-sensitive applications. Queues assigned to operate in AV mode, support CBS (Credit-Based Shaper as specified in IEEE 802.1-Qav), or SP scheduling algorithms.
##### 10.6.2.3.6 Time Sensitive Networking
There are many applications that require predictable network latency. Some of these applications include audio and video, initially defined in Audio Video Bridging (AVB) standards, automotive sensor control networks as well as advanced driver assistance. To support tight time tolerance as well as predictable network latency requirements of these applications, the Ether QOS implements the following features in hardware.
- Enhancements to Scheduled Traffic (EST) as defined in IEEE 802.1Qbv
- Frame preemption and Interspersing Express Traffic as defined in IEEE 802.1Qbu and IEEE
802.3br
- Time-Based Scheduling to enable above defined features
- Enhancements to Scheduled Traffic
The IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015 defines the schedule for each of the queues on every egress port, which makes the implementation aware of traffic arrival schedule. This information can be used to block the lower priority traffic from transmission in this time window/slot. This ensures that scheduled

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description traffic is forwarded from sender to receiver through all the network nodes with a deterministic delay. This behavior is shown in the following figure.
**Figure 10.32 Scheduled Traffic**
As per the standard, the following updates are needed in the Transmit Scheduler to support EST.
- Implementation of Gate Control List (GCL)
- Enforcing gate controls in the scheduler
- Accounting for Gate Open (O) duty cycle in the computation of idleSlope (CBS)
The controller supports all 3 of these requirements in hardware. When EST is used in isolation, the Gate Control List manages the final open/close state of the Queues along with the checks carried out by the Transmission Selection Algorithm in MTL. As the Gate Controls operate on a predefined repetitive schedule, it is recommended to use Strict Priority or Credit Based Shaper (CBS) scheduling algorithms.
- Frame preemption and Interspersing Express Traffic
Preemption permits one or more higher priority (express) frames to interrupt the transmission of a lower priority (preemptable) frame; the preemptable frame transmission is resumed and completed after the express frame transmission is complete. To support frame preemption, the following two abstractions of the MAC are used: A preemptable MAC, called pMAC, which carries the preemptable traffic. An express MAC, called eMAC, which carries the express traffic. pMAC and eMAC operate in parallel as shown in the following figure.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.33 Preemptable and Express Traffic**
In the implementation, only parts of the MAC that hold the state during preemption is replicated and represented as pMAC and eMAC. The MAC uses the following two ways to puts on hold, the transmission of the preemtable traffic, in the presence of express traffic: The MTL scheduler interrupts the preemptable traffic that is currently being transmitted. When the preemption capability is active, the MAC interrupts the transmission and reception of preemptable frames. Zero or more express frames follow a preempted fragment, before the continuation fragments. The preemptable frame can be fragmented any number of times, however, the minimum final and nonfinal fragment length criterion must be is met. However, interleaving of more than one preemptable packet is not permitted. This implies that if an express packet fragments a preemptable packet, another preemptable packet cannot be transferred until all the remaining fragments of the first preempted packet are transferred. The MTL scheduler prevents starting the transmission of preemptable traffic. When the preemption capability is inactive, the pMAC entity is disabled and only express traffic is transmitted or received. Frame preemption feature can be enabled by setting EFPE field of the MAC_FPE_CTRL_STS register.
- Time-Based Scheduling
- To support the strict transmit time requirements of EST, the controller adds a Time-Based
Scheduling feature. In this feature, the transmit DMA fetches the packet from the host memory for transmission at a designated time. This helps the software to set up the Transmit descriptors in advance even before the packet is ready/available. The following “Time” parameters control the queue behavior and enable the controller to adhere to strict time requirements of EST: Launch Time: The time beyond which MTL can schedule the packet for transmission.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Fetch Time: The time beyond which the Tx DMA can schedule a packet-fetch from the host
memory. Expiry Time: The time beyond which the MTL drops the packet. The Time-Based Scheduler does not directly influence the Transmission Selection Algorithm but has an indirect influence as it determines if a queue is eligible to participate in the scheduling. If a frame of a specific queue has a valid Launch Time, the Time-Based Scheduler ensures that the frame participates in Transmit Scheduling (TRC Scheduler) only after the Launch time has elapsed.
- TCP/IP Offload Features
Communication protocols such as TCP and UDP implement checksum fields, which help determine the integrity of data transmitted over a network. The most widespread use of Ethernet is to encapsulate TCP and UDP over IP datagrams. Therefore, the MAC has an optional Checksum Offload Engine (COE) to support checksum calculation and insertion in the transmit path and error detection in the receive path. Details on various offload features provided in the controller are explained in the following sections.
- Transmit Checksum Offload Engine
The MAC has a Checksum Offload Engine (COE) to support checksum calculation and insertion in the Transmit path, using which, the software offloads the task of checksum insertion to the hardware. In the Transmit path MAC calculates the checksum and inserts it in the Tx packet. This feature helps to reduce the load on the software and can improve the overall throughput of the system.
- The Checksum Offload Engine (COE) supports the following checksum offloads on the transmit
path.
- IPv4 Checksum Offload
- TCP/UDP/ICMP checksum offload (not true for IPv4 fragment)
The L3/L4 checksum can be controlled for each packet using the following options:
- CIC bits (Transmit Descriptor TDES3 Bits[17:16]). Software needs to program these bits to
have checksum generation and insertion in Tx frame.
- Checksum insertion is enabled for tunneled packets when VNE bit of MAC_Tx_Configuration
register is set and the VNP=3’b011 in the Tx Descriptor of the corresponding packet.
- Setting TSC bit of MAC_Timestamp_Control: This bit enables checksum correction during
- OST for PTP over UDP/IPv4 packets. Software needs to set this bit to keep the UDP
checksum correct for changes made to origin timestamp and/or correction field as part of one-step timestamp operation. This bit is only applicable for PTP packets.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Receive Checksum Offload Engine
Similar to the Transmit Checksum Offload engine, the Receive Checksum Offload Engine detects the following checksum errors. IPv4 Checksum Offload:
- TCP/UDP/ICMP checksum offload (not true for IPv4 fragment)
The Receive Checksum Offload can be controlled for each packet using the following options:
- Receive Checksum Offload can be enabled by setting IPC bit in MAC_Rx_Configuration
register.
- TCP/IP Checksum Error packet drop control: Setting
- MTL_RxQ(i=0:9)_Operation_Mode.DIS_TCP_EF bit disables dropping of checksum error
packets on Receive. When DIS_TCP_EF bit is set, the MAC does not drop the packets, which only have the errors detected by the Receive Checksum Offload engine. Checksum verification for different types of tunneled packets can be controlled as well using provided register controls.
- The software can enable/disable checksum error-related interrupts from MMC Counters
through MMC_IPC_Rx_Interrupt_Mask register. By default, all interrupts are enabled.
- TCP/IP Segmentation Offload (TSO) Engine
In the TCP segmentation offload (TSO) feature, the DMA splits a large TCP packet into multiple small packets and passes these packets to the MTL as shown in the following figure.
**Figure 10.34 TCP Segmentation Offload Overview**
The TSO operation flow is explained in the following figure.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.35 TSO Operation Flow**
The application must create the header in Buffer 1 of the first descriptor of the packet to be segmented and provide the header length in TDES2 of the first descriptor (FD = 1). When the FD bit is set, the DMA reads the header from the header buffer to which the TDES0 is pointing. Buffer 2 of the first descriptor can be used for payload and TDES0 and TDES1 of subsequent descriptors.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description For subsequent descriptors (FD = 0), the address to which the TDES0 and TDES1 are pointing is treated as payload buffer address of the same packet.
**Figure 10.36 Head and Payload Fields of Segmented Packets**
- UDP/IPv4 Fragment Offload (UFO) Engine
The UFO breaks down a large UDP packet into smaller packets using IPv4 fragmentation. Each IPv4 fragment contains the following header or payload information:
- Ethernet Header
- IP Header
- UDP Header (only in the first fragment)
- UDP Payload
- In this mode, the MSS field in the context Descriptor (TDES2[17:0]) and DMA_CH(#)_Control
register, are interpreted as Maximum Fragmentation Size (MFS). This is the maximum size of the payload after the IPv4 header in each fragment. When UFO is enabled, the MSS field must be programmed in multiples of 8 bytes, because, the IP fragments offset is defined in terms of 8 bytes. UFO functions in two modes.
- UFO with valid UDP checksum
- UFO with no UDP checksum
- Using the IPv4 ARP Offload Engine
DWC_ether_qos supports the Address Recognition Protocol (ARP) Offload for IPv4 packets. This feature allows the processing of the IPv4 ARP request packet in the receive path and generating corresponding ARP response packet in the transmit path. DWC_ether_qos generates the ARP reply packets for appropriate ARP request packets. The ARP packet for IPv4 is L2 layer packet with Length/Type of 0x0806.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
##### 10.6.2.3.7 Flow Control
- Enabling Flow Controls
The flow control in the Tx and Rx directions can be enabled using the following controls. To enable the Transmit Flow Control independently for each Rx queue, set the TFE bit in the MAC_Q#_Tx_Flow_Ctrl register. To enable the Pause Flow Control, set the RFE bit in the MAC_Rx_Flow_Ctrl register.
- Full Duplex Mode
In full-duplex mode, the DWC_ether_qos uses one of the following packet types for flow control:
- IEEE 802.3x Pause packets
- Priority flow control (PFC) packets
The PFC packets are used only when the Enable Data Center Bridging option is selected. The PFCE bit of MAC_Rx_Flow_Ctrl register determines whether the PFC packets or the IEEE 802.3x Pause Control packets are used for flow control. If the PFCE bit is set, the MAC sends the PFC packets.
- Half Duplex Mode
In half-duplex mode, the MAC uses the deferral mechanism for the flow control (back pressure).
- When the application requests to stop receiving packets, the MAC sends a JAM pattern of 32
bytes when it senses a packet reception, provided the transmit flow control is enabled. This results in a collision and the remote station back off. If the application requests a packet to be transmitted, it is scheduled and transmitted even when the back pressure is activated. If the back pressure is kept activated for a long time (and more than 16 consecutive collision events occur), the remote stations abort the transmission because of excessive collisions.
- Virtualization
The Ethernet Controller supports hardware-assisted virtualization (multiple operating systems share underlying hardware). Hypervisor is responsible to allocate queues and channels to different
- VMs. The Resource Manager (RM) or one trusted OS programs the common registers shared by
multiple VMs. The host accesses controller registers over the APB bus. Each VM is allocated a 64 kB address window in this interface for it to program its registers. Similarly, the RM is provided a separate 64 kB register window to program common registers. A given VM only has access to the registers allocated to it and cannot access another VMs register space.
- Registers Address Space
- The following figure shows the address map of ETHER_QOS. The figure shows how the register
space is mapped to various VMs, RM, and HV. They are physically aliased at 64 KB to enable easy mapping in the host MMU. VMs have access and visibility to only a register space marked in blue.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description Access to these spaces by specific VMs are controlled by the RM by configurating appropriate mapping register in the ETHER_QOS. Other register spaces are only assigned to the RM. The RM can also access all the registers that are accessible by VMs.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.37 Address Map of ETHER_QOS**

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description The following register access operations are considered illegal operations:
- One Guest OS trying to access other Guest OS registers
Any Guest OS trying to access registers belonging to RM or HV page.
- RM trying to access registers in HV page
HV trying to access registers in RM or any Guest OS page. The Guest OS illegal access status is captured in the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_APB_ERR_STATUS_0
The option to generate APB slave error for guest OS illegal access can be enabled by programming the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_VIRTUAL_APB_ERR_CTRL_0
Similarly, RM or HV illegal access status is captured in the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_HV_APB_ERR_STATUS_0
- The option to generate an APB slave error for RM or HV illegal access can be enabled by
programming the following register:
- ETHER_QOS_HV_APB_ERR_CTRL_0
The ETHER_QOS can support up to maximum of four guest OSes, 1 RM, and 1 HV. Therefore, six 64 KB pages [4 VMs and 1RM and 1HV] of address space is needed. The RM page should have access to a whole region. If virtualization is not employed, the [only] operating system could operate in the HV/RM register window directly. The implementation is shown below.

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.38 Register Windows Design**
- PTP Register Access from VMs
The PTP registers require common read access by all VMs. Therefore, these registers are placed in a separate 64 kB address window, which is accessible by all VMs. ETHER_QOS VM5 AMAP page is used for this purpose.
- System Memory Protection mechanism for Ether QOS Controller
Since the DMA controller of the Ether QOS generates memory requests on AXI using AXI_ID[3:1], which is based on issuing channel number, a conversion table is provided at the interface to convert AXI_ID[3:1] to ASID (address space identifier for different VMs in the Ethernet Controller) used by the SMMU. Hypervisor programs the conversions table before the Controller’s VMs issues access to system memory. Generally, a guest OS memory space is protected by the CPU’s MMU (for CPU-generated requests) or by the MC’s SMMU (for non-CPU generated requests). 1GMAC’s DMA controller makes requests directly to system memory over its AXI interface.
- Assuming 1GMAC is performing DMA on behalf of multiple guest OSes; each memory request has

1G Ethernet Controller Functional Description to be annotated with the correct ASID (address space identifier) to enable SMMU to determine whether 1GMAC can perform the desired operation.
- The AXI ID [3:1] issued on the AXI master interface corresponds to the DMA channel number
associated with the request. A mapping table converts AXI ID [3:1] to ASID. The mapping table is mapped to 64 KB HV page. The reset value of ASIDs is 0.
- Interrupt Management
Ether QOS provides per VM interrupt besides providing a common interrupt that provides common interrupt status. The following figure shows how these interrupts are wired to LIC.
**Figure 10.39 Interrupt Management**

1G Ethernet Controller Programming Guidelines
- Descriptor Prefetch
The Ether QOS supports a descriptor cache. When the descriptor cache operation is enabled, the
- DMA uses the memory for transmit and receive descriptor cache. Each Tx/Rx DMA channel can
cache multiple descriptors based on the values of the following parameters:
- DWC_EQOS_DCTX_DEP: The value of this parameter determines the number of descriptors
that can be fetched for every Tx DMA. The maximum value is 16.
- DWC_EQOS_DCRX_DEP: The value of this parameter determines the number of descriptors
that can be fetched for every Rx DMA. The maximum value is 16.}.Body)
