# 10.7.2 MACsec Functional Description

The MACsec IP consists of three major blocks: MACsec Tx, MACsec Rx, and the Configuration block. MACsec Tx provides Global Bypass, if needed, to bypass MACsec Tx logic (Egress direction). Similarly, MACsec Rx provides the Global Bypass, if needed, to Bypass MACsec RX logic (Ingress direction). MACsec also support loop-back where Egress traffic from MACsec can be looped back to Ingress MACsec.

- MACsec Functional Description
The MACsec IP consists of the following high-level functional blocks:
- MACsec Tx
1.
- MAC Rx: This block interfaces with the MAC transmit path through XGMII/RGMII and
converts XGMII/RGMII data and control information into internal format.
- MACsec Tx Core: This block carries out multistage lookup based on incoming MAC header. It
associates the packet to the correct MACsec SC and fetches the parameters for preparing the MACsec header. This lookup also determines whether MACsec needs to be bypassed for uncontrolled port traffic and controlled port traffic. This block processes various header parameters based on lookup and formats the data as per the requirement of MACsec protocol. The data is forwarded to later stages for generation of ICV and FCS. MAC Tx: This block converts the data back to XGMII/RGMII data and control. 2. 3.
- MACsec Rx
1. 2. MAC Rx: This block maps the received XGMII/RGMII data and control to internal format.
- MACsec Rx Core: This block does multistage lookup based on the received header data. It
associates the packet to the correct MACsec SC and fetches the parameters for validating the MACsec header. This lookup also checks whether packet must be bypassed. For controlled port traffic that hit the bypass LUT, packets are dropped if
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.VALIDATE_FRAMES register bit is “STRICT”, else packets
are bypassed. This block also validates the received MACsec header for compliance based on lookup parameters. The packet payload is passed for checking ICV. Once ICV operation is completed, MACsec header and ICV are removed, and FCS is regenerated.
- MAC Tx: This block sends the packet data to the receive path of MAC after converting into
appropriate format of XGMII/RGMII along with control information. 3.
- CONFIG: This block implements functions to interface with the CBB fabric, Local Interrupt
- Controller (LIC), and the HSM plug-in (Hardware Safety Mechanism) and implements following
subblocks.
- APB slave interface
- AMAP Decoder
Interrupts logic (collects various interrupt events and passes them to LIC block).
- Error Collator Block
- Configuration and Status Registers to control MACsec operation
- Debug Registers
- MACsec Statistics registers

- MACsec Functional Description
#### 10.7.2.1 MACsec Tx Details
##### 10.7.2.1.1 MAC Rx
This block interfaces with the MAC transmit path through the XGMII/RGMII. This block captures the data/control and monitors protocol error conditions. The received data is sent along with proprietary control information to downstream blocks. The output of this block is converted into internal data and control bits. Output is maintained as 128-bit data irrespective of the interface (XGMII/RGMII) and control fields carry information like SOP, EOP, data length, and special characters (as defined in IEEE 802.3 Table 35-2 and Table 46-3). A valid bit indicates that the bus has a valid data and control. The following control info is transferred along with data:
- CRC check status
- Packet type: Normal Packet or preempted packet
- Initial or noninitial fragments of a preempted packet
‘Error characters’ location of the packet The following diagram describes the high-level states involved in processing of interface signals.

- MACsec Functional Description
**Figure 10.49 MAC TX Interface State Machine**
##### 10.7.2.1.2 MACsec Tx Core
The MACsec Egress lookups are done in the MACsec Tx Core to carry out MACsec operation on the outgoing packets. The lookup classification determines whether the packet should be: Bypassed. CRC is regenerated even for bypassed packet. Dropped (if there is no match in Bypass and SC LUTs entries).
- MACsec processed (such as adding SEC_TAG and ICV insertion)
CRC is generated for the newly composed packet. The following table lookups are used in MACsec Egress flow.
- Egress Bypass table
- Egress SC LUT
- Egress SC Params table
- Egress SC state table
- Egress SA state table

- MACsec Functional Description
- Egress SC key table
- Description of Egress LUT
The descriptions of Egress LUT are:
- Egress Bypass LUT: The MACsec standard supports the existence of uncontrolled port
traffic and controlled port traffic on the same physical port. Uncontrolled port traffic should bypass the MACsec functionality. To support this bypass feature, Egress bypass table lookup is provided.
- Based on the configuration in MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP CBB BLF register, either TZ or RM can
program this LUT. Default configuration of the BLF permits the RM to program this LUT.
- The Bypass Lookup Table (LUT) holds maximum of 32 entries. It stores MAC_SA/MAC_DA/
- EtherType and other parameters of a packet in each entry that can be used in Bypass
lookup. Software (RM or TZ entity) can write/read the entries to/from this table. Flow on how to provide controlled access to these tables from the TZ or the RM is explained in the section "Programming Block Level Firewalls". Hardware only uses the data from this table to determine whether to bypass the packet.
- Software uses the indirect addressing mode to program all fields in the row (Steps to
configure the LUTs is mentioned in the section "Steps to Configure Tx/Rx BYPASS and
- SC_INDEX LUTs"). Software can disable any entry (row) of the Bypass LUT by writing 0 in
the corresponding bit positions of MACSEC_TX_BYP_LUT_VALID_0 register.
- Egress Bypass LUT format is specified in the section "MACsec Egress Lookup Table
Formats".
- Egress SC LUT: Holds maximum of 16 entries. It stores MAC_SA/MAC_DA/EtherType and
other parameters of a packet in each entry that can be used in SC lookup.
- Based on the configuration in MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP CBB BLF register, either TZ or RM can
program this LUT. Default configuration of the BLF permits the RM to program this LUT. Egress SC LUT format is specified in the section "MACsec Egress Lookup Table Formats". This table is software controlled. Software can write/read the entries to/from this table.
- Hardware only uses the data from this table to determine the SC_Index. Software uses
indirect-addressing mode to program all fields in the row (Steps to configure the LUT is mentioned in the section "Steps to Configure Tx/Rx SA_STATE, SC_PARAM and SC_STATE LUTs").
- Software can disable any entry by writing 0 in the corresponding bit positions of
MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0 register. Software programs AN_Valid when a new SAK is added to SC. Egress SC PARAM Table:

- MACsec Functional Description
- Egress SC Parameter table format and description are in "MACsec Egress Lookup Table
Formats" section.
- Based on the configuration in MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP CBB BLF register, either TZ or RM can
program this LUT. Default configuration of the BLF permits the RM to program this LUT.
- It has maximum of 16 entries. The following parameters are maintained in each entry in
this table. - - - -
- TCI
- PN_THRESHOLD
- PN_MAX
- KEY_INDEX_START
Hardware only uses the data from this table for MACsec processing.
- Software uses indirect-addressing mode to program all entries in the row (Steps to
configure the LUT is mention in the section "Steps to Configure Tx/Rx SA_STATE, SC_PARAM and SC_STATE LUTs"). Egress SC STATE Table:
- Egress SC_STATE table format and description is specified in the section "MACsec Egress
Lookup Table Formats". Maximum of 16 entries. Stores the CURRENT_AN info in for each SC.
- Based on the configuration in MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP CBB BLF register, either TZ or RM can
program this LUT. Default configuration of the BLF permits the RM to program this LUT. Both software and hardware control this table. Software initializes this CURR_AN field with the starting AN value of the secure channel.
- Hardware uses it for frames processing and updates it with next valid AN value. When the
Packet Number (PN) of current AN saturates, hardware switches to next AN.
- Software uses indirect addressing mode to program all entries in the row. (Steps to
configure the LUT are mentioned in the section "Steps to Configure Tx/Rx SA_STATE, SC_PARAM and SC_STATE LUTs"). Egress SA (Secure Association) STATE Table:
- Egress SA state table format and description are specified in the section "MACsec Egress
Lookup Table Formats". Maximum of 32 entries. This table stores the NEXT_PN and a VALID bit.
- Based on the configuration in MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP CBB BLF register, either TZ or RM can
program this LUT. Default configuration of the BLF permits the RM to program this LUT. Software initializes the Next_PN and Valid bits for each secure association entry.
- Hardware invalidates the entry when the PN value (for a given SC and AN) reaches the
PN_Max limit. Software reinitializes the Next_PN and Valid bits.
- If VALID=0, it means that software owns the entry. Hardware should not use this entry. If
VALID=1, hardware can use the entry. Egress Key Table:

- MACsec Functional Description
- Egress Key LUT format and description are specified in the section "MACsec Egress LUT
Formats".
- Maximum of 32 entries. This table stores
- 256-bit SAK, 128-bit H-Key (H-Key = ESAK(0128) which is the Hash Key and is a string of 128 zero bits encrypted using the AES-GCM engine A VALID bit per entry. Valid bit works like the one in SA (Secure Association) State table entries. - - TZ entity programs this LUT. Software should populate the SAKs for all valid SCs and valid ANs.
- Depending on Cipher suite supported, SAK field is programmed with 128 bits key or 256 bits
key. Software should compute H from SAK and programmed in “HKEY” field in Key LUT. H = AES(SAK,0)
- Steps to configure key table LUT is mentioned in the section "Steps to Configure Tx/Rx KEY
TABLE LUT".
- TZ software sets it during Keys programming and Hardware clears it when the corresponding
PN saturates. All the Egress LUT other than the key table are specified in 4 KB address range in RM page. The CBB BLF for this 4KB page can be configured so that TZ or RM can access it.
- MACsec Egress LUT Formats
- Egress Bypass LUT
The Egress bypass LUT structure is shown in the following figure. The depth of the table is 32. The various fields are extracted from the packet and compared with the valid LUT entries. Each Lookup has a byte-based Mask or field-based Mask bits.
**Figure 10.50 Egress Bypass LUT Structure**

- MACsec Functional Description
- Table 10.18 Egress Bypass LUT
- Field
- Bit field
bits
- Description
- MAC_DA
[47:0]
- MAC Destination Address
- MAC_DA_MASK
[53:48]
- Byte Mask
- MAC_SA
[101:54]
- MAC Source Address
- MAC_SA_MASK
[107:102]
- Byte Mask
- ETYPE
[123:108]
- EtherType
- ETYPE_MASK
[124:124]
- Field Mask
- VLAN_PCP
[127:125]
- VLAN Priority
- VLAN_PCP_MASK
[128:128]
- Field Mask
- VLAN_VID
[140:129]
- VLAN ID
- VLAN_VID_MASK
[141:141]
- Field Mask
- VLAN_VALID
[142:142]
- VLAN field valid [2]
- BYTE0_PATTERN
[150:143]
- Flexible byte0 value[3]
- BYTE0_OFFSET
[156:151]
- Offset location within initial 64bytes of the
packet starting from first byte of MAC DA
- BYTE0_MASK
[157:157]
- Field Mask
- BYTE1_PATTERN
[165:158]
- Flexible byte1 value
- BYTE1_OFFSET
[171:166]
- Offset location within initial 64bytes of the
packet starting from first byte of MAC DA
- BYTE1_MASK
[172:172]
- Field Mask
- BYTE2_PATTERN
[180:173]
- Flexible byte2 value[4]
- BYTE2_OFFSET
[186:181]
- Offset location within initial 64bytes of the
packet starting from first byte of MAC DA
- BYTE2_MASK
[187:187]
- Field Mask
- BYTE3_PATTERN
[195:188]
- Flexible byte3 value
- BYTE3_OFFSET
[201:196]
- Offset location within initial 64bytes of the
packet starting from first byte of MAC DA
- BYTE3_MASK
[202:202]
- Field Mask
- PREMPT
[203:203] 0 – Express packet, 1 – Preemptable packet
- PREMPT_MASK
[204:204]
- Field Mask

- MACsec Functional Description
- Field
- Bit field
bits
- Description
- UNCTRL_CTRL
[205:205]
- Lookup result (OUTPUT) [5]

