# 10.7.3 MACsec Programming Guidelines

@{Key=10.7.3; Title=MACsec Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 10.7.3.1 Initial Configuration Guidelines
##### 10.7.3.1.1 Clocks and Reset Programming
1. 2. Assert MACsec Clock enables. Refer to the "Clocks" section for details. Apply and release MACsec Resets. Refer to the "Resets" section for the register names.
##### 10.7.3.1.2 Global Configuration Programming Guidelines
Refer to the "Global Configuration Register Fields Description" section for the following register bits: 1.
- Enable the following interrupts. These are the basic set interrupts required for MACsec
Operation. a.
- MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0
i.
- PN_EXHAUSTED_INT_EN
- PN_THRSHLD_RCHD_INT_EN
- AES_GCM_BUF_OVF_INT_EN
ii. iii. b.
- MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0
i.
- PN_EXHAUSTED_INT_EN
- REPLAY_ERROR_INT_EN
- ICV_ERROR_INT_EN
- AES_GCM_BUF_OVF_INT_EN
ii. iii. iv. c.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0
i.
- RX_UNINIT_KEY_SLOT_INT_EN
- RX_LKUP_MISS_INT_EN
- TX_UNINIT_KEY_SLOT_INT_EN
ii. iii.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
iv.
- TX_LKUP_MISS_INT_EN
d.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK1_0
i.
- SFTY_ERR_UNCORR_INT_EN
2. 3. Program the MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.VALIDATE_FRAMES field based on the use case.
- Enable or disable replay protection based on the use case, by programming the
MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_REPLAY_PROT_EN field. a.
- If replay protection is enabled, enable the corresponding interrupt using the
MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0.REPLAY_ERROR_INT_EN register field. 4.
- Assign priority between Tx SC Index and Tx Bypass LUTs. It is used in the case a packet
makes a hit in both LUTs. This can be programmed using the bit MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_LUT_PRIORITY.
- Enable/Disable MTU Check unit in MACsec based on the use case, by programming the
following fields. 5.
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_MTU_CHECK_ENB
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.RX_MTU_CHECK_ENB
6. If MTU Check is enabled, program the following fields with the MTU threshold value that is, with value: MAC MTU+SECTAG size+ICV size. If the packet length exceeds this threshold value, MTU check will fail and the corresponding interrupt is asserted. Refer to the "MTU Check on Egress and Ingress Packets" section for more details on MTU Check.
- MACSEC_TX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
- MACSEC_RX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
7.
- If MTU Check is enabled, also enable the corresponding interrupts using the following
register bits:
- MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0.MTU_CHECK_FAIL_INT_EN
- MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0.MTU_CHECK_FAIL_INT_EN
8. Program the AES GCM Engine Mode to 128/256 bit Key, using the following register fields.
- MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0. TX_AES_MODE
- MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0. RX_AES_MODE
9. Program the following fields if nonsecure interrupt should be asserted for Tx/Rx lookup miss events. By default, secure interrupt is asserted when such events happen.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR
10.
- Enable double VLAN processing, program the DVLAN_CONTROL_0 registers, and choose
between the inner or outer VLAN fields for LUT lookup. Refer the "Handling VLAN Packets" section for details.
- Enable the necessary Tx and Rx Bypass LUT entries by programming 1 in the following
register fields. The following registers are 32-bit in size. Each bit corresponds to the validity of each LUT entry. (1-> Valid LUT Entry, 0-> Invalid LUT Entry) 11.
- MACSEC_TX_BYP_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_RX_BYP_LUT_VALID

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
Hardware does the lookup only in the Valid LUT Entries.
- Enable the necessary Tx and Rx SC_INDEX LUT entries by programming 1 in the following
register fields. The following registers are 16 bit in size. Each bit corresponds to the validity of each LUT entry. (1-> Valid LUT Entry, 0-> Invalid LUT Entry) 12.
- MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
- MACSEC_RX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
Hardware does the lookup only in the Valid LUT Entries.
##### 10.7.3.1.3 Guidelines to Bypass MACsec Functionality for MKPDU Traffic
- Software must populate Tx and Rx Bypass LUTs to bypass the MACsec functionality for
specific ethernet traffic.
- Description of Tx and Rx Bypass LUTs is present in these sections "Description of Egress
Lookup Tables" and "Description of MACsec Ingress Lookup Tables" respectively.
- Populate Tx and Rx Bypass LUT entries with the parameters of MKPDU Traffic (for example,
MAC_SA, MAC_DA, EtherType). Steps to configure the LUTs are described in the "Configuring MACsec LUTs" section. Program the lookup result of the LUT entry to uncontrolled port. Program bit field [205:205] of the LUT entry to 0. Program Valid bit in respective register depending on LUT programmed. - -
- MACSEC_TX_BYP_LUT_VALID_0
- MACSEC_RX_BYP_LUT_VALID_0
Software should program only the required entries, for others set the valid bit to zero.
- Software can configure multiple such entries. If the packet hits multiple entries, the
hardware takes the lowest index-entry lookup result. .
##### 10.7.3.1.4 Guidelines to Create a Secure Channel in MACsec Tx
- Tx SC INDEX, Tx SC_PARAMETER, Tx SC_STATE, Tx SA_STATE, and Tx KEY_TABLE LUT must be
programmed for creating a secure channel in MACsec Tx. Note: A LUT entry is only programmed for valid entries. For others, software should ensure to put the valid bit as “0” to invalidate the entry. The description of these LUTs is present in the "Description of Egress Lookup Tables" section. Steps to configure these LUTs are present in the "Configuring MACsec LUTs" section.
- Tx SC INDEX LUT Programming

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Using this LUT, software provides the secure channel index (SC_INDEX) and corresponding
valid ANs to hardware for protecting ethernet traffic with certain parameters (MAC_DA, MAC_SA, EtherType). - - Populate each SC_INDEX LUT entry with the parameters of the ethernet traffic. Populate lookup results for each SC_INDEX LUT entry. That is:
- SC_INDEX field–Bits[212:209]
- Valid AN field–Bits[208:205]
Make the corresponding entry valid by programming Valid bit in respective register:
- MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
- MACSEC_RX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
- If the incoming traffic hits multiple entries, lowest index lookup results are used by
hardware for further processing.
- Tx SC PARAMETER LUT Programming
- Software populates the following parameters in the LUT, for each secure channel
(SC_INDEX). Hardware requires these for MACsec Processing. -
- TCI, SCI, KEY_INDEX_START, VLAN_IN_CLR, PN_MAX, PN_TRHESHOLD
-
- As shown in the Egress Lookup Flow Diagram, each row of this LUT gives parameters of a
particular SC_INDEX (for example, row#0 gives parameters of SC_INDEX0, row1-> parameters of SC_INDEX1,…). - Software must program the parameters in the LUT at each SC_INDEX offset. - TCI field should be programmed as: V = 0/1
- ES = 0 or 1 depending on the platform requirements
- -
- ES=1 if first six octets of SCI are MAC SA
- ES=0 if MAC SA is not used to determine SCI
- SC = 0 or 1 depending on following requirements
- -
- SC=0 if SCI is not present in SecTAG or ES=1
- SC=1 if SCI is explicitly encoded (MACsec standard [1] (IEEE 802.1AE_2018). Section
9.9) {ES, SC} valid encodings are {00,01,10} The following TCI bits are tied off in hardware as: - - -
- SCB=0
E=0 C=0 -
- SCI field
- It is an 8-byte field. It should be programmed as defined in MACsec standard [1] (IEEE
802.1AE_2018).
- Note: Even for the case (ES =1, SC =0), software should populate SCI LUT field
with the correct value. In this case, SCI = {SA, 0x0001}.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
-
- KEY_INDEX_START
- As shown in the Egress Lookup Flow Diagram, KEY_INDEX_START is used to point to the
start of secure channel keys in the Key Table. Hence, software should program this field accordingly. -
- VLAN_IN_CLR
Based on this bit value, SecTag header will be added before or after VLAN field. Software must program this bit based on the use case. -
- PN_MAX and PN_THRESHOLD
- Software must program these fields for the given secure channel and the initial AN that
is populated in the TX SC STATE Table. Note:
- If the ES and SC bits of TCI are set to 1 due to some programming error. This
following is the hardware behavior. a. b.
- SecTag is added without SCI [with SC =1 and ES=1]
ICV is added. Packet is NOT corrupted. c.
- Tx SC STATE LUT Programming
It contains only one field CURRENT_AN[1:0]. Stores the CURRENT_AN info for each SC.
- As shown in Egress Lookup Flow Diagram, each row of the LUT represents CURRENT_AN
field of SC_INDEX[row#]. Software initializes this field with the starting AN value for each SC Index. Software and hardware controls this table.
- Hardware uses it for frame processing and when the PN of the current AN saturates,
hardware updates the field with the next AN Value.
- Tx SA STATE LUT Programming
- This LUT contains two fields: NEXT_PN and VALID
- Software should initialize NEXT_PN and VALID bits for each SA (secure association) entry,
as shown in Egress Lookup Flow Diagram.
- Hardware uses this NEXT_PN field to populate the PN field in the SECTAG of the MACsec
frame.
- Hardware increments the NEXT_PN field (by 1) for every valid frame assigned to that SA
(secure association). Hardware sets the VALID bit to 0. Once the PN value for that secure association reaches the PN_Max limit and moves to next valid SA.
- Software reinitializes the Next_PN and VALID bits. Software MUST initialize the next SA
before the expiry of the previous one. If VALID=0, it means that the software owns the entry. Hardware does not use this entry. If VALID=1, hardware can use the entry.
- Tx Key Table Programming

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
This LUT contains 256/128 bit SAK, 128-bit H-Key, and a 1-bit VALID field. H-Key = ESAK(0128) is the Hash Key, a string of 128 zero bits encrypted using AES-GCM engine Software should populate the SAK and H-Key for all valid SCs and valid ANs.
- Software sets the VALID bit during Keys programming and hardware clears it when the
corresponding PN saturates.
##### 10.7.3.1.5 Guidelines to Create a Secure Channel in MACsec Rx
- Rx SC INDEX, Rx SC_PARAMETER, Rx SC_STATE, Rx SA_STATE, and Rx KEY_TABLE LUTs must be
programmed for creating a secure channel in MACsec Rx. Program MACSEC_RX_SECTAG_CONFIG_0.TCI_V. Note that only “zero” setting is spec compliant as “one” setting ignores the version number in Security Tagged frames. Note: A LUT entry is only programmed for Valid entries. For others, software should make sure to put Valid bit as “0” to invalidate the entry. Description of these LUTs is present in the "Description of MACsec Ingress Lookup Tables" section. Steps to configure these LUTs are present in the "Configuring MACsec LUTs" section.
- Rx SC INDEX LUT Programming
- Using this LUT, software provides the secure channel index info (SC_INDEX) to hardware
for validating MACsec Ethernet Traffic with certain parameters (such as SCI, Prempted/ Non-Preempted traffic).
- Software must populate RX_SCINDEX LUT fields with the parameters of the MACsec
Ethernet Traffic.
- Lookup result: SC_INDEX must be programmed at each offset and make the entry valid,
by programming ENTRY_VALID field to 1.
- Hardware will compare the parameters of the incoming traffic with the fields of the LUT
and determine the SC_Index (lookup result) for that particular packet. - - -
- Rx SC PARAMETER LUT Programming
- Similar to the Tx SC Parameter LUT, parameters in each row correspond to each
SC_INDEX, as shown in Ingress Look Flow Diagram. Software must program:
- KEY_INDEX_START
- to point to start of SC keys in the Key Table LUT.
- PN_WINDOW
- If Rx needs to receive out of order packets.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
-
- PN_MAX
- Mac Packet Number programmed
- Rx SA STATE LUT Programming
- Contains NEXT_PN, PN_MAX and LOWEST_PN fields
- Software initializes the NEXT_PN, PN_MAX and LOWEST_PN values for each secure
association
- If replay protection is enabled (Global Configuration), MACsec hardware checks if the
received pkt PN >= LOWEST_PN configured in this LUT.
- If this check fails,
- - Received packets are corrupted and sent to MAC.
- Status is logged and a nonsecure interrupt is asserted. Refer to the "REPLAY_ERROR"
section for more details. Hardware does update the NEXT_PN or the LOWEST_PN values in the LUT. -
- If the replay check passes (or if the check is not enabled) and once the packet has been
successfully validated, hardware updates the NEXT_PN and LOWEST_PN values in the manner described in “Figure 10-4—Management controls and counters for secure frame verification” of IEEE 802.1AE_2018.
- Rx SC STATE LUT Programming
Contains CURRENT_AN field. Hardware populates this field based on the current Rx MACsec Packet that it receives. Software can look at this register to know the current AN of the packet. Software does not need to write anything into this LUT.
- Rx Key Table LUT Programming
Secure software must populate SAK, H-Key, and VALID fields for all valid SCs and valid ANs.
- Depending on Cipher suite mode (Refer to the "Global Configuration Register Fields
Description" section), SAK field is programmed with a 128-bit key or a 256-bit key.
##### 10.7.3.1.6 SOT_Delay Settings for EQOS and MGBE
Program SOT_Delay settings as defined in the "SoT (Start of Transmission) Delay Setting" section. Note that he setting is different between EQOS and MGBE.
##### 10.7.3.1.7 Enable MACsec Tx and Rx Engines
After the preceding initial configuration is done, enable MACsec Tx and Rx Engines by programming the following bits. This enables MACsec Processing for the incoming packets.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0. TX_ENB=1
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0. RX_ENB=1

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
#### 10.7.3.2 Run Time Configuration Guidelines
At runtime, MACsec hardware gives various interrupts. The following section gives details about the type of interrupts, why they occur, error logging info (status) for each interrupt and how to clear the interrupt.
##### 10.7.3.2.1 Interrupts Handling
MACsec has two interrupts. Secure Interrupt and Non-Secure Interrupt.
- Nonsecure interrupt gets asserted when the following events occur and when their
corresponding interrupt enable bits are set to 1 in MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_MASK_0 registers. 1.
- Tx/Rx MTU Check Fail
- Tx SC_AN_NOT_VALID
- Tx/Rx MAC CRC ERROR
- Tx/Rx PN_EXHAUSTED
- Tx PN THRESHOLD REACHED
- Tx/Rx AES GCM BUFFER OVERFLOW
- Tx/Rx LKP MISS (Special case: Refer to the following note.)
- Tx/Rx DBG_BUF_CAPTURE_DONE
- ICV_ERROR
- REPLAY_ERROR
- Secure interrupt is asserted when the following events occur and when their corresponding
interrupt enable bits are set to 1 in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0 register. 2. Non-TZ entity-accessing TZ registers.
- Use of uninitialized Tx/Rx Key-in Key Table LUT
- Tx/Rx LKP MISS
- Note: Tx/Rx LKP MISS event is a special case. Its interrupt mask is present in
MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0 register. By default, this event asserts secure interrupt. But if the register field MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX/RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1, this event asserts nonsecure interrupt.
- Handling Non-Secure Interrupt
1.
- Read the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_COMMON_STATUS_0 register to know if it is a Tx or Rx
interrupt.
- Read the MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0 register to find which interrupt causing
events occurred. 2.
- If MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX/RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1, TX/RX_LKUP_MISS event
may also be the reason for Non-Secure interrupt assertion.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
3.
- Read MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_MASK_0 register to know the events that are enabled
on the nonsecure interrupt line.
- Also read MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0.TX/RX_LKUP_MISS_INT_EN register fields, if
- MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX/RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1
4.
- The following sections describe error logging and interrupt clearing procedure for various
events.
- Note: MACSEC_INTERRUPT_COMMON_STATUS_0 register is auto cleared after all the pending
events (that cause secure and nonsecure interrupts) are handled.
- PN THRESHOLD
- This event indicates to software that the PN value of some SAs (Secure Associations)
reached the threshold value. The SC and AN details of such secure associations are logged in these registers:
- MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS0_0,
MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS1_0. Software can use this information to identify the SAs that are about to expire.
- To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt
- Write 1 to the corresponding AN bit locations of
- MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS0_0 and
MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS1_0 registers. This auto clears MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.PN_THRSHLD_RCHD register field. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- PN EXHAUSTED
This event indicates to software that some SAs are expired. For example, PN value of the SAs reached the PN MAX value. The SC and AN details of the SAs that got expired, are logged in these registers:
- MACSEC_<TX/RX>_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS0_0, MACSEC_<TX/
RX>_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS1_0.
- If software wants to reuse these SAs, reenable the SAs by programming the Keys, NEXT_PN,
and Valid bits in the SA_STATE and Key Table LUTs. Valid Bit is present in only Tx SA LUT but not in Rx.
- To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt
- Write 1 to the corresponding AN bit locations of
- MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS0_0 and
MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS1_0 registers. This auto clears MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.PN_EXHAUSTED register field. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- INVALID AN
This event indicates that a particular SC hit an invalid entry in the Tx SA_STATE Table.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Read MACSEC_TX_SC_ERROR_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0 register to know the SCs that hit this
error. Software must enable the ANs in advance, to avoid this kind of error. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to clear the corresponding SC bits in
MACSEC_TX_SC_ERROR_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0 register. This auto clears MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.SC_AN_NOT_VALID bit. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- MAC CRC ERROR
This interrupt gets asserted when there is a CRC error in the incoming pkt. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to clear MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.MAC_CRC_ERROR register
field. Nonsecure interrupt line is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- MTU CHECK FAIL
- This interrupt is asserted when MACSEC_CONTROL1.<TX/RX>_MTU_CHECK_ENB register bit
is enabled and when pkt length is greater than the maximum pkt size programmed in <TX/ RX>_MTU_LEN registers. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.MTU_CHECK_FAIL register field. Nonsecure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- ICV_ERROR
- This error occurs when the incoming ICV tag does not match with the calculated ICV tag at
the Rx side.
- MACSEC_RX_SC_ICV_ERROR_STATUS_0 register logs the SC numbers, which encountered
this error. And the status bit for each SC is set on the first occurrence of an ICV error in that
- SC. It has no relation to ICV threshold settings. And the status bits do not generate any
interrupt.
- When the number of ICV errors exceed the threshold, programmed in
MACSECRX_ICV_ERROR_CONTROL register, hardware triggers the nonsecure interrupt. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 to MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.ICV_ERROR bit field. Nonsecure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event. The following table summarizes Interrupt plus Threshold count capabilities for various events.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Table 10.32 Interrupt and Threshold Count Capabilities
- Error Event
- Status
- Threshold
- Interrupt
- Stats Counter
- ICV Errors - Aggregate of all
- SCs
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- No
- ICV Errors per SC
- Yes
- No
- No
- Yes
- Replay Protection per SC
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- Yes
- CRC Errors in Received Pkt
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- MACSEC_TX_INPKTS_CRCIN_N
- OTVALID_LO/HI_0
- MACSEC_RX_INPKTS_CRCIN_N
- OTVALID_LO/HI_0
- Encrypted Packets in Ingress
traffic
- No
- No
- No
- No
- Lookup Miss
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- Yes for "MACSEC tagged"
packets: InPktsNoSAError
- No for Bypass "MACSEC
untagged"
- RX: Non MACSEC Packets
- No
- No
- No
- Yes: InPktsNoTag
- RX: Bad MACSEC tags
(SecTag, ICV)
- No
- No
- No
- Yes: InPktsBadTag
- REPLAY_ERROR
- This error occurs when MACSEC_CONTROL0.RX_REPLAY_PROT_EN=1 and when the incoming
packets PN value is not within the permitted PN_window value.
- Details of the SCs and ANs, which failed the replay check are logged in
- MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS0_0 and
MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS1_0 registers. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 in the corresponding bit locations of MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS0_0
and MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS1_0 registers. This auto clears MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.REPLAY_ERROR register. Nonsecure interrupt will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Tx Lookup Miss Interrupt
This event occurs when there is no hit in both Tx BYPASS and SC LUT.
- This event can assert a nonsecure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.TX_LKUP_MISS register. Nonsecure interrupt will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Rx Lookup Miss Interrupt

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
This event occurs when there is no hit in Rx SC and BYPASS LUT.
- This event can assert a secure/non-secure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=0/1. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.RX_LKUP_MISS register field. Nonsecure interrupt will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Debug Buffer Interrupt
- This event indicates to software, that the programmed trigger event has been hit and the
corresponding packet has been captured in the debug buffer. The hit trigger event detail is logged in the register: MACSEC_<TX/RX>_DEBUG_STATUS_0. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to clear MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0. DBG_BUF_CAPTURE_DONE
register field. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event. Write 1 to clear the bit set in the MACSEC_<TX/RX>_DEBUG _STATUS_0 register.
- Handling Secure Interrupt
- Uninitialized Key in Tx/Rx Key Table LUT
This occurs when an invalid/uninitialized key is attempted for use (for the ICV generation in the Tx Side and ICV validation in the Rx side). Details of the SCs and ANs that hit this error can be found by reading these registers:
- MACSEC_<TX/RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS0_0, MACSEC_<TX/
- RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS1_0
To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to the corresponding bit locations of MACSEC_<TX/
RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS0_0, MACSEC_<TX/RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS1_0.
- This auto clears MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.< TX/RX>_UNINIT_KEY_SLOT register
field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Secure Register Access Violation
This occurs when a non-TZ entity tries to access TZ register space in MACsec. The error is logged in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0. SECURE_REG_VIOL register field. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 to MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0. SECURE_REG_VIOL register field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Tx Lookup Miss Interrupt
This event occurs when there is no hit in both Tx BYPASS and Tx SC_INDEX LUTs.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- This event can assert a secure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=0. The error is logged in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.TX_LKUP_MISS register field. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.TX_LKUP_MISS register field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Rx Lookup Miss Interrupt
This event occurs when there is no hit in Rx BYPASS LUT.
- This event can assert a secure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=0. The error is logged in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.RX_LKUP_MISS register field. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.RX_LKUP_MISS register field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Handling Safety Interrupts
Safety Interrupts are controlled using following registers.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK1_0. SFTY_ERR_UNCORR_INT_EN
Status for the Safety Interrupts can be monitored using following registers.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_COMMON_STATUS_0. MSEC_SFTY_ERR_INTR
- Run Time Reset Assertion Flow
There are metastability concerns when reset is applied to MAC or MACsec block during run time. To make sure that there is no metastability concern in these cases, follow the flow defined in the "Reset Special Cases" section.
#### 10.7.3.3 Configuring MACsec LUTs
MACsec contains the list of LUTs in both Tx (Ingress) and Rx (Egress) directions. These LUTs can be programmed using indirect-addressing mode, as explained in the following sections.
- GCM KEY TABLE LUT
- SC BYPASS LUT
- SC INDEX LUT
- SC STATE LUT
- SA STATE LUT
- SC PARAMETER LUT

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
##### 10.7.3.3.1 Steps to Configure Tx/Rx KEY TABLE LUT
This is done using GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG, GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers. Step1: Configure GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers.
- For write operation, configure the GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers with the data
that must be written to the LUT at a particular index.
- For read operation, the GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers contains LUT data after the
transaction is complete. Ordering requirement:
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0] contains the least significant bits of the LUT data and
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[12] contains most significant bits of the LUT data. (The
programming example mentioned in the next section illustrates this requirement.) Step2: Configure the MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0 register:
- Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.CTLR_SEL=0/1 to select Tx/Rx GCM KEY
TABLE LUT. Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.RW=0/1 to read/write from the selected LUT.
- Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.TABLE_INDEX= index# from/to which data
should be written/read from the selected LUT.
- Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.UPDATE=1 to start the update operation
- Software should poll for MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.UPDATE=0 to confirm that the
update operation is completed.
- Example
Objective: To load (write) the following content into index 3 of TX_GCM_KEYTABLE_LUT.
- Table 10.33 TX_GCM_KEYTABLE_LUT
- ENTRY_VALID[384]
- HKEY[383:256]
- SAK[255:0]
0x23457685……64956842 0x14268579….32658925 Steps: Program GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA registers as:
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[12] = 0x1
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[11] = 0x23457685
…….

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[8] = 0x64956842
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[7] = 0x14268579
…….
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0] = 0x32658925
- Program GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG fields
- CTRL_SEL = TX
R/W = 1 (WRITE)
- TABLE_INDEX = 0x3
- UPDATE = 1(START) ß--- this bit triggers the hardware to update the LUT
- Poll for GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG UPDATE field to become 0 (This indicates that LUT is
updated successfully).
##### 10.7.3.3.2 Steps to Configure Tx/Rx SA_STATE, SC_PARAM and SC_STATE LUTs
This is done using LUT_CONFIG_0, LUT_DATA [0…6] registers. Step1: Configure the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers:
- For write operation, configure the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers with the data that must be
written into the selected LUT at a particular index. For read operation, the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers contains the LUT data after the transaction is complete. Ordering requirement:
- LUT_DATA [0] contains the least significant bits and LUT_DATA [6] contains the most
significant bits of the LUT data. Step2: Configure the LUT_CONFIG_0 register:
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. LUT_SEL= <2=SC_PARAM, 3=SC_STATE> to select the LUT that
must be written into/read from.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. CTLR_SEL=0/1 to select Tx/Rx of the preceding LUT type
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0.RW=0/1 to write/read from the selected LUT
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX= index# from/to which data should written/
read from the selected LUT.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=1 to start the update operation
- Software should poll for LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=0 to confirm that the update operation is
completed.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Example
Objective: To read data from index 4 of TX_SC_PARAM LUT. Steps: Program the MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0 register fields.
- CONTROL_SEL = 0 (TX)
R/W = 0 (READ)
- LUT_SEL = 2 (SC_PARAM)
- TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX = 4
- UPDATE = 1 (START)
Poll until register field MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0.UPDATE becomes 0. Read the LUT_DATA[6,…0] registers to see the contents of TX_SC_PARAM LUT at index 2. Various fields in TX_SC_PARAM LUT can be extracted in the following bitmapped way. {key_index_start, PN_max, PN_threshold, TCI, SCI, VLAN_IN_CLR} = {LUT_DATA[0], LUT_DATA[1],
- LUT_DATA[2], LUT_DATA[3], LUT_DATA[4]};
##### 10.7.3.3.3 Steps to Configure Tx/Rx BYPASS and SC_INDEX LUTs
These LUTs are also configured using indirect addressing mode. The only difference is that VALID bits of each LUT entry are moved from SRAM to Registers. (This change permits software to invalidate quickly all the unused entries during MACsec initial configuration.) Step 1: Write 1 to the corresponding bit locations of the following registers to enable the required Bypass and SC_INDEX LUT entries.
- MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_RX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_TX_BYP_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_RX_BYP_LUT_VALID
Step 2: Configure the MACSEC_LUT_DATA [0…6] registers:
- For write operation, program the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers with the data that must be
written into the selected LUT at a particular index. For read operation, the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers contains LUT data after the transaction is complete. Ordering requirement:

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- LUT_DATA [0] contains the least significant bits and LUT_DATA [6] contains most
significant bits of the LUT data. Step 3: Configure the LUT_CONFIG_0 register:
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. LUT_SEL= <0=BYPASS, 1=SC_INDX> to select the LUT that must be
written into/read from.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. CTLR_SEL=0/1 to select Tx/Rx of the preceding LUT type
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0.RW=0/1 to write/read from the selected LUT
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX= index# from/to which data should written/
read from the selected LUT.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=1 to start the update operation
- Software must poll for LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=0 to confirm that the update operation is
completed.
- Example
Objective: To write the following data into index 6 of TX_SC_INDX LUT.
- MAC SA = 112233445566
- MAC SA MASK = 88FF00
- MAC DA= AABBCCDDEE77
- MAC DA MASK = 11AB00
… … Steps:
- Program MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID[6] = 1
Program the MACSEC_LUT_DATA[0…6] register with the preceding write data.
- For example, program
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [0] = 0x33445566
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [1] = 0xFF001122
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [2] = 0xDDEE7788
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [3] = 0x00AABBCC

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
…. …. Program the MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0 register fields.
- CONTROL_SEL = 0 (TX)
R/W = 1 (WRITE)
- LUT_SEL = 1 (SC_INDX)
- TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX = 6
- UPDATE = 1 (START)
- Poll until the register field MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0.UPDATE becomes 0 to confirm that the
data is written successfully into the LUT.
#### 10.7.3.4 Inter-Packet Gap (IPG) Programming in MAC
At the transmit side, packets coming out 1GMAC/XGMAC must have an additional IPG in addition to the minimum IPG (12 bytes) mentioned by the standard. The additional IPG is required to insert MACsec headers in the transmitting packets. It can be either: 24 bytes (8 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV) 32 bytes (16 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV)
##### 10.7.3.4.1 1GMAC
MAC_Configuration.IPG[2:0] provides the IPG values defined when EIPGEN=0: Current settings for IPG are: 0x0 (IPG96): 96 bit times IPG 0x1 (IPG88): 88 bit times IPG 0x2 (IPG80): 80 bit times IPG 0x3 (IPG72): 72 bit times IPG 0x4 (IPG64): 64 bit times IPG 0x5 (IPG56): 56 bit times IPG 0x6 (IPG48): 48 bit times IPG 0x7 (IPG40): 40 bit times IPG
- MAC_Ext_Configuration.EIPGEN: Enables extended IPG
- When Extended IPG (EIPG) is enabled, then {MAC_Ext_Configuration.EIPG[4:0],
MAC_Configuration.IPG[2:0]} à NewIPG[7:0] provides Extended IPG values (in steps of 8 bits):
- Extended IPG = 96 + NewIPG[7:0]*8
- Example: If EIPGEN=1, NewIPG=12, then Extended IPG=96+96=192 or 24B

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
##### 10.7.3.4.2 XGMAC
- MAC_Tx_configuration.IFP: Enables extended IPG
Current settings for IPG[2:0] are: 3'b000: 96 bit times 3'b001: 88 bit times 3'b010: 80 bit times 3'b011: 72 bit times 3'b100: 64 bit times 3'b101: 3'b111: Reserved MAC_Extended_Configuration.EIPG: Provides Extended IPG as defined.
- When the MAC_Tx_configuration.IFP bit is set, the minimum IPG is increased in steps of 32
bits depending on the programming of the MAC_Extended_Configuration.EIPG field and IPG field in the MAC_Tx_Configuration register. {EIPG,IPG}: Minimum Inter-Packet Gap-->96 + {EIPG,IPG}*32 - - - - - - - 10'h000: 96 bit times 10'h001: 128 bit times 10'h010: 160 bit times 10'h011: 192 bit times 10'h100: 224 bit times ... 10'h3FF: 32832 bit times
- Example: If {EIPG, IPG}=3, then Extended IPG = 96+3*32=192 bits or 24 B
#### 10.7.3.5 Programming Block Level Firewalls
The MACsec AMAP space is protected using BLFs (Block Level Firewalls). The list of BLFs and the region, which each BLF is protecting is shown in the following diagram.
- MACsec Tx/Rx KEY TABLE LUTs are protected by MACSEC_TZ BLF. Hence, software should
program MACSEC_TZ BLF to permit access only from TZ entity.
- As a second-level protection, MACsec IP also does the TZ check, (for example, check if the
master that is accessing TZ space, has PPROT[1]=0). This second level protection is guarded by the fuse input to MACsec inside the IP.
- All other MACsec LUTs are protected by MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP BLF. Hence software should
program MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP BLF to permit access either from TZ entity or from an RM entity based on the platform.
- Software should program MACSEC_RM_RX_BYP BLF, MACSEC_RM_CFG BLF,
MACSEC_RM_ERR_BLF to permit access only from RM entity.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
**Figure 10.66 Block Level Firewalls**
#### 10.7.3.6 Global Configuration Register Fields Description
- Configuration bit
- Reset value
- Comments
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_ENB
By default, MACsec Tx controller will be disabled. (Packets coming to MACsec Tx get bypassed)
- This bit should be programmed to 1 to enable
MACsec in transmit direction.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_ENB
By default, MACsec Rx controller will be disabled. (Packets coming to MACsec Rx get bypassed)
- This bit should be programmed to 1 to enable
MACsec in receive direction.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Configuration bit
- Reset value
- Comments
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.VALIDATE_FR
- AMES[22:21]
- STRICT
Used in receive direction during SC lookup stage.
- Based on this setting and various error scenarios,
respective counters are incremented and also packet is sent to MAC with corrupted CRC or good CRC. 0 = DISABLED:
- ICV check is disabled. SecTag and ICV fields are
removed from the frame before forwarding it to the next module. 1 = CHECK:
- ICV check is done. And the InPktsInValid counter
is updated based on ICV check result. Packet is sent without corrupting CRC to MAC. (after removing SecTag and ICV) 2 = STRICT:
- ICV check is done. If ICV check fails, the frame is
dropped (CRC of the frame is corrupted) and InPktsNotValid counter is updated.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_LOOKUP_
- MISS
- DROP
- When the packet does not hit any of the Bypass
or SC-Index LUT, packet will be dropped or bypassed based on this bit. 0 = DROP: Corrupt the packet on tables lookup miss. 1 = BYPASS: Bypass the packet on tables lookup miss.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_LOOKUP_
- MISS
- DROP
- When there is a Bypass LUT miss, packet is
corrupted or bypassed based on this bit.
- Note: This bit is applicable only for Bypass LUT
and not SC index LuT. 0 = DROP: Corrupt the packet on bypass tables lookup miss. 1 = BYPASS: Bypass the packet on bypass tables lookup miss.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_REPLAY_
- PROT_EN
- ENABLE
- Replay Protection can be enabled or disabled
using this bit. 0 = DISABLE: Disable replay protection. 1 = ENABLE: Enable replay protection.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_LKP_MIS
S_NON_SECURE_INTR
- SECURE_INTR
- When Tx lookup miss event occurs, hardware will
assert secure/non-secure intr based on this bit. 0 = SECURE_INTR 1 = NON_SECURE_INTR
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_LKP_MIS
S_NON_SECURE_INTR
- SECURE_INTR
- When Rx lookup miss event occurs, hardware will
assert secure/non-secure intr based on this bit. 0 = SECURE_INTR 1 = NON_SECURE_INTR

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Configuration bit
- Reset value
- Comments
MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.
- INT_LPBK_MODE
Loopback disabled.
- Internal Loopback mode. When this bit is set,
- MACsec Tx output lines will be connected to
- MACsec Rx input lines internally as shown in Block
Diagram.
- The loopback is implemented in the MACsec
Wrapper at:
- RGMII interface for ETHER_QOS MACsec
instance.
- XGMII interface for MGBE MACsec
instances. 0 = DISABLE: Disable Loopback. 1 = ENABLE: Enable Loopback.
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_MTU_CH
- ECK_ENB
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.RX_MTU_CH
- ECK_ENB
- MACsec Transmit and Receive Maximum
- Transmission Unit Check control bits (Controlled
separately)
- Note: When 1GMAC and XGMAC do not perform
an MTU Check, this functionality is added in MACSEC. 0 = DISABLE: Disable MTU check. 1 = ENABLE: Enable MTU check.
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_LUT_PRIO
- RITY
- MACsec Transmit SC and Bypass LUTs' priority
control 0 = SC: SC Index LUT has the priority over Bypass LUT. 1 = BYPASS: Bypass LUT has the priority over SC-Index LUT. MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0.
- RX_AES_MODE[1:0]
- AES-128 bit
- MACsec Receive AES Mode of operation
0 = AES128:
- AES-128bit Key
1 = Reserved 2 = AES256:
- AES-256bit Key
3 = Reserved MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0.
- TX_AES_MODE[1:0]
- AES-128 bit
- MACsec Transmit AES Mode of operation
0 = AES128:
- AES-128bit Key
1 = AES192:
- AES-192bit Key, Not supported
2 = AES256:
- AES-256bit Key
3 = UNDEFINED: This setting is reserved.
- MACSEC_TX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
- MACSEC_RX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
0x3fff MTU_LENGTH_THRESHOLD: 0 is illegal. Non-Zero value of X indicates packet length.
- Greater than X will be treated as violating MTU
check.

- MACsec Registers}(@{Key=10.7.3; Title=MACsec Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 10.7.3.1 Initial Configuration Guidelines
##### 10.7.3.1.1 Clocks and Reset Programming
1. 2. Assert MACsec Clock enables. Refer to the "Clocks" section for details. Apply and release MACsec Resets. Refer to the "Resets" section for the register names.
##### 10.7.3.1.2 Global Configuration Programming Guidelines
Refer to the "Global Configuration Register Fields Description" section for the following register bits: 1.
- Enable the following interrupts. These are the basic set interrupts required for MACsec
Operation. a.
- MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0
i.
- PN_EXHAUSTED_INT_EN
- PN_THRSHLD_RCHD_INT_EN
- AES_GCM_BUF_OVF_INT_EN
ii. iii. b.
- MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0
i.
- PN_EXHAUSTED_INT_EN
- REPLAY_ERROR_INT_EN
- ICV_ERROR_INT_EN
- AES_GCM_BUF_OVF_INT_EN
ii. iii. iv. c.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0
i.
- RX_UNINIT_KEY_SLOT_INT_EN
- RX_LKUP_MISS_INT_EN
- TX_UNINIT_KEY_SLOT_INT_EN
ii. iii.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
iv.
- TX_LKUP_MISS_INT_EN
d.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK1_0
i.
- SFTY_ERR_UNCORR_INT_EN
2. 3. Program the MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.VALIDATE_FRAMES field based on the use case.
- Enable or disable replay protection based on the use case, by programming the
MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_REPLAY_PROT_EN field. a.
- If replay protection is enabled, enable the corresponding interrupt using the
MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0.REPLAY_ERROR_INT_EN register field. 4.
- Assign priority between Tx SC Index and Tx Bypass LUTs. It is used in the case a packet
makes a hit in both LUTs. This can be programmed using the bit MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_LUT_PRIORITY.
- Enable/Disable MTU Check unit in MACsec based on the use case, by programming the
following fields. 5.
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_MTU_CHECK_ENB
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.RX_MTU_CHECK_ENB
6. If MTU Check is enabled, program the following fields with the MTU threshold value that is, with value: MAC MTU+SECTAG size+ICV size. If the packet length exceeds this threshold value, MTU check will fail and the corresponding interrupt is asserted. Refer to the "MTU Check on Egress and Ingress Packets" section for more details on MTU Check.
- MACSEC_TX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
- MACSEC_RX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
7.
- If MTU Check is enabled, also enable the corresponding interrupts using the following
register bits:
- MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0.MTU_CHECK_FAIL_INT_EN
- MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_MASK_0.MTU_CHECK_FAIL_INT_EN
8. Program the AES GCM Engine Mode to 128/256 bit Key, using the following register fields.
- MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0. TX_AES_MODE
- MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0. RX_AES_MODE
9. Program the following fields if nonsecure interrupt should be asserted for Tx/Rx lookup miss events. By default, secure interrupt is asserted when such events happen.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR
10.
- Enable double VLAN processing, program the DVLAN_CONTROL_0 registers, and choose
between the inner or outer VLAN fields for LUT lookup. Refer the "Handling VLAN Packets" section for details.
- Enable the necessary Tx and Rx Bypass LUT entries by programming 1 in the following
register fields. The following registers are 32-bit in size. Each bit corresponds to the validity of each LUT entry. (1-> Valid LUT Entry, 0-> Invalid LUT Entry) 11.
- MACSEC_TX_BYP_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_RX_BYP_LUT_VALID

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
Hardware does the lookup only in the Valid LUT Entries.
- Enable the necessary Tx and Rx SC_INDEX LUT entries by programming 1 in the following
register fields. The following registers are 16 bit in size. Each bit corresponds to the validity of each LUT entry. (1-> Valid LUT Entry, 0-> Invalid LUT Entry) 12.
- MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
- MACSEC_RX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
Hardware does the lookup only in the Valid LUT Entries.
##### 10.7.3.1.3 Guidelines to Bypass MACsec Functionality for MKPDU Traffic
- Software must populate Tx and Rx Bypass LUTs to bypass the MACsec functionality for
specific ethernet traffic.
- Description of Tx and Rx Bypass LUTs is present in these sections "Description of Egress
Lookup Tables" and "Description of MACsec Ingress Lookup Tables" respectively.
- Populate Tx and Rx Bypass LUT entries with the parameters of MKPDU Traffic (for example,
MAC_SA, MAC_DA, EtherType). Steps to configure the LUTs are described in the "Configuring MACsec LUTs" section. Program the lookup result of the LUT entry to uncontrolled port. Program bit field [205:205] of the LUT entry to 0. Program Valid bit in respective register depending on LUT programmed. - -
- MACSEC_TX_BYP_LUT_VALID_0
- MACSEC_RX_BYP_LUT_VALID_0
Software should program only the required entries, for others set the valid bit to zero.
- Software can configure multiple such entries. If the packet hits multiple entries, the
hardware takes the lowest index-entry lookup result. .
##### 10.7.3.1.4 Guidelines to Create a Secure Channel in MACsec Tx
- Tx SC INDEX, Tx SC_PARAMETER, Tx SC_STATE, Tx SA_STATE, and Tx KEY_TABLE LUT must be
programmed for creating a secure channel in MACsec Tx. Note: A LUT entry is only programmed for valid entries. For others, software should ensure to put the valid bit as “0” to invalidate the entry. The description of these LUTs is present in the "Description of Egress Lookup Tables" section. Steps to configure these LUTs are present in the "Configuring MACsec LUTs" section.
- Tx SC INDEX LUT Programming

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Using this LUT, software provides the secure channel index (SC_INDEX) and corresponding
valid ANs to hardware for protecting ethernet traffic with certain parameters (MAC_DA, MAC_SA, EtherType). - - Populate each SC_INDEX LUT entry with the parameters of the ethernet traffic. Populate lookup results for each SC_INDEX LUT entry. That is:
- SC_INDEX field–Bits[212:209]
- Valid AN field–Bits[208:205]
Make the corresponding entry valid by programming Valid bit in respective register:
- MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
- MACSEC_RX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID_0
- If the incoming traffic hits multiple entries, lowest index lookup results are used by
hardware for further processing.
- Tx SC PARAMETER LUT Programming
- Software populates the following parameters in the LUT, for each secure channel
(SC_INDEX). Hardware requires these for MACsec Processing. -
- TCI, SCI, KEY_INDEX_START, VLAN_IN_CLR, PN_MAX, PN_TRHESHOLD
-
- As shown in the Egress Lookup Flow Diagram, each row of this LUT gives parameters of a
particular SC_INDEX (for example, row#0 gives parameters of SC_INDEX0, row1-> parameters of SC_INDEX1,…). - Software must program the parameters in the LUT at each SC_INDEX offset. - TCI field should be programmed as: V = 0/1
- ES = 0 or 1 depending on the platform requirements
- -
- ES=1 if first six octets of SCI are MAC SA
- ES=0 if MAC SA is not used to determine SCI
- SC = 0 or 1 depending on following requirements
- -
- SC=0 if SCI is not present in SecTAG or ES=1
- SC=1 if SCI is explicitly encoded (MACsec standard [1] (IEEE 802.1AE_2018). Section
9.9) {ES, SC} valid encodings are {00,01,10} The following TCI bits are tied off in hardware as: - - -
- SCB=0
E=0 C=0 -
- SCI field
- It is an 8-byte field. It should be programmed as defined in MACsec standard [1] (IEEE
802.1AE_2018).
- Note: Even for the case (ES =1, SC =0), software should populate SCI LUT field
with the correct value. In this case, SCI = {SA, 0x0001}.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
-
- KEY_INDEX_START
- As shown in the Egress Lookup Flow Diagram, KEY_INDEX_START is used to point to the
start of secure channel keys in the Key Table. Hence, software should program this field accordingly. -
- VLAN_IN_CLR
Based on this bit value, SecTag header will be added before or after VLAN field. Software must program this bit based on the use case. -
- PN_MAX and PN_THRESHOLD
- Software must program these fields for the given secure channel and the initial AN that
is populated in the TX SC STATE Table. Note:
- If the ES and SC bits of TCI are set to 1 due to some programming error. This
following is the hardware behavior. a. b.
- SecTag is added without SCI [with SC =1 and ES=1]
ICV is added. Packet is NOT corrupted. c.
- Tx SC STATE LUT Programming
It contains only one field CURRENT_AN[1:0]. Stores the CURRENT_AN info for each SC.
- As shown in Egress Lookup Flow Diagram, each row of the LUT represents CURRENT_AN
field of SC_INDEX[row#]. Software initializes this field with the starting AN value for each SC Index. Software and hardware controls this table.
- Hardware uses it for frame processing and when the PN of the current AN saturates,
hardware updates the field with the next AN Value.
- Tx SA STATE LUT Programming
- This LUT contains two fields: NEXT_PN and VALID
- Software should initialize NEXT_PN and VALID bits for each SA (secure association) entry,
as shown in Egress Lookup Flow Diagram.
- Hardware uses this NEXT_PN field to populate the PN field in the SECTAG of the MACsec
frame.
- Hardware increments the NEXT_PN field (by 1) for every valid frame assigned to that SA
(secure association). Hardware sets the VALID bit to 0. Once the PN value for that secure association reaches the PN_Max limit and moves to next valid SA.
- Software reinitializes the Next_PN and VALID bits. Software MUST initialize the next SA
before the expiry of the previous one. If VALID=0, it means that the software owns the entry. Hardware does not use this entry. If VALID=1, hardware can use the entry.
- Tx Key Table Programming

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
This LUT contains 256/128 bit SAK, 128-bit H-Key, and a 1-bit VALID field. H-Key = ESAK(0128) is the Hash Key, a string of 128 zero bits encrypted using AES-GCM engine Software should populate the SAK and H-Key for all valid SCs and valid ANs.
- Software sets the VALID bit during Keys programming and hardware clears it when the
corresponding PN saturates.
##### 10.7.3.1.5 Guidelines to Create a Secure Channel in MACsec Rx
- Rx SC INDEX, Rx SC_PARAMETER, Rx SC_STATE, Rx SA_STATE, and Rx KEY_TABLE LUTs must be
programmed for creating a secure channel in MACsec Rx. Program MACSEC_RX_SECTAG_CONFIG_0.TCI_V. Note that only “zero” setting is spec compliant as “one” setting ignores the version number in Security Tagged frames. Note: A LUT entry is only programmed for Valid entries. For others, software should make sure to put Valid bit as “0” to invalidate the entry. Description of these LUTs is present in the "Description of MACsec Ingress Lookup Tables" section. Steps to configure these LUTs are present in the "Configuring MACsec LUTs" section.
- Rx SC INDEX LUT Programming
- Using this LUT, software provides the secure channel index info (SC_INDEX) to hardware
for validating MACsec Ethernet Traffic with certain parameters (such as SCI, Prempted/ Non-Preempted traffic).
- Software must populate RX_SCINDEX LUT fields with the parameters of the MACsec
Ethernet Traffic.
- Lookup result: SC_INDEX must be programmed at each offset and make the entry valid,
by programming ENTRY_VALID field to 1.
- Hardware will compare the parameters of the incoming traffic with the fields of the LUT
and determine the SC_Index (lookup result) for that particular packet. - - -
- Rx SC PARAMETER LUT Programming
- Similar to the Tx SC Parameter LUT, parameters in each row correspond to each
SC_INDEX, as shown in Ingress Look Flow Diagram. Software must program:
- KEY_INDEX_START
- to point to start of SC keys in the Key Table LUT.
- PN_WINDOW
- If Rx needs to receive out of order packets.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
-
- PN_MAX
- Mac Packet Number programmed
- Rx SA STATE LUT Programming
- Contains NEXT_PN, PN_MAX and LOWEST_PN fields
- Software initializes the NEXT_PN, PN_MAX and LOWEST_PN values for each secure
association
- If replay protection is enabled (Global Configuration), MACsec hardware checks if the
received pkt PN >= LOWEST_PN configured in this LUT.
- If this check fails,
- - Received packets are corrupted and sent to MAC.
- Status is logged and a nonsecure interrupt is asserted. Refer to the "REPLAY_ERROR"
section for more details. Hardware does update the NEXT_PN or the LOWEST_PN values in the LUT. -
- If the replay check passes (or if the check is not enabled) and once the packet has been
successfully validated, hardware updates the NEXT_PN and LOWEST_PN values in the manner described in “Figure 10-4—Management controls and counters for secure frame verification” of IEEE 802.1AE_2018.
- Rx SC STATE LUT Programming
Contains CURRENT_AN field. Hardware populates this field based on the current Rx MACsec Packet that it receives. Software can look at this register to know the current AN of the packet. Software does not need to write anything into this LUT.
- Rx Key Table LUT Programming
Secure software must populate SAK, H-Key, and VALID fields for all valid SCs and valid ANs.
- Depending on Cipher suite mode (Refer to the "Global Configuration Register Fields
Description" section), SAK field is programmed with a 128-bit key or a 256-bit key.
##### 10.7.3.1.6 SOT_Delay Settings for EQOS and MGBE
Program SOT_Delay settings as defined in the "SoT (Start of Transmission) Delay Setting" section. Note that he setting is different between EQOS and MGBE.
##### 10.7.3.1.7 Enable MACsec Tx and Rx Engines
After the preceding initial configuration is done, enable MACsec Tx and Rx Engines by programming the following bits. This enables MACsec Processing for the incoming packets.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0. TX_ENB=1
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0. RX_ENB=1

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
#### 10.7.3.2 Run Time Configuration Guidelines
At runtime, MACsec hardware gives various interrupts. The following section gives details about the type of interrupts, why they occur, error logging info (status) for each interrupt and how to clear the interrupt.
##### 10.7.3.2.1 Interrupts Handling
MACsec has two interrupts. Secure Interrupt and Non-Secure Interrupt.
- Nonsecure interrupt gets asserted when the following events occur and when their
corresponding interrupt enable bits are set to 1 in MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_MASK_0 registers. 1.
- Tx/Rx MTU Check Fail
- Tx SC_AN_NOT_VALID
- Tx/Rx MAC CRC ERROR
- Tx/Rx PN_EXHAUSTED
- Tx PN THRESHOLD REACHED
- Tx/Rx AES GCM BUFFER OVERFLOW
- Tx/Rx LKP MISS (Special case: Refer to the following note.)
- Tx/Rx DBG_BUF_CAPTURE_DONE
- ICV_ERROR
- REPLAY_ERROR
- Secure interrupt is asserted when the following events occur and when their corresponding
interrupt enable bits are set to 1 in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0 register. 2. Non-TZ entity-accessing TZ registers.
- Use of uninitialized Tx/Rx Key-in Key Table LUT
- Tx/Rx LKP MISS
- Note: Tx/Rx LKP MISS event is a special case. Its interrupt mask is present in
MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0 register. By default, this event asserts secure interrupt. But if the register field MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX/RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1, this event asserts nonsecure interrupt.
- Handling Non-Secure Interrupt
1.
- Read the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_COMMON_STATUS_0 register to know if it is a Tx or Rx
interrupt.
- Read the MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0 register to find which interrupt causing
events occurred. 2.
- If MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX/RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1, TX/RX_LKUP_MISS event
may also be the reason for Non-Secure interrupt assertion.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
3.
- Read MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_MASK_0 register to know the events that are enabled
on the nonsecure interrupt line.
- Also read MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK0_0.TX/RX_LKUP_MISS_INT_EN register fields, if
- MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX/RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1
4.
- The following sections describe error logging and interrupt clearing procedure for various
events.
- Note: MACSEC_INTERRUPT_COMMON_STATUS_0 register is auto cleared after all the pending
events (that cause secure and nonsecure interrupts) are handled.
- PN THRESHOLD
- This event indicates to software that the PN value of some SAs (Secure Associations)
reached the threshold value. The SC and AN details of such secure associations are logged in these registers:
- MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS0_0,
MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS1_0. Software can use this information to identify the SAs that are about to expire.
- To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt
- Write 1 to the corresponding AN bit locations of
- MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS0_0 and
MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_THRESHOLD_STATUS1_0 registers. This auto clears MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.PN_THRSHLD_RCHD register field. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- PN EXHAUSTED
This event indicates to software that some SAs are expired. For example, PN value of the SAs reached the PN MAX value. The SC and AN details of the SAs that got expired, are logged in these registers:
- MACSEC_<TX/RX>_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS0_0, MACSEC_<TX/
RX>_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS1_0.
- If software wants to reuse these SAs, reenable the SAs by programming the Keys, NEXT_PN,
and Valid bits in the SA_STATE and Key Table LUTs. Valid Bit is present in only Tx SA LUT but not in Rx.
- To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt
- Write 1 to the corresponding AN bit locations of
- MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS0_0 and
MACSEC_TX_SC_PN_EXHAUSTED_STATUS1_0 registers. This auto clears MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.PN_EXHAUSTED register field. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- INVALID AN
This event indicates that a particular SC hit an invalid entry in the Tx SA_STATE Table.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Read MACSEC_TX_SC_ERROR_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0 register to know the SCs that hit this
error. Software must enable the ANs in advance, to avoid this kind of error. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to clear the corresponding SC bits in
MACSEC_TX_SC_ERROR_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0 register. This auto clears MACSEC_TX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.SC_AN_NOT_VALID bit. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- MAC CRC ERROR
This interrupt gets asserted when there is a CRC error in the incoming pkt. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to clear MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.MAC_CRC_ERROR register
field. Nonsecure interrupt line is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- MTU CHECK FAIL
- This interrupt is asserted when MACSEC_CONTROL1.<TX/RX>_MTU_CHECK_ENB register bit
is enabled and when pkt length is greater than the maximum pkt size programmed in <TX/ RX>_MTU_LEN registers. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.MTU_CHECK_FAIL register field. Nonsecure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- ICV_ERROR
- This error occurs when the incoming ICV tag does not match with the calculated ICV tag at
the Rx side.
- MACSEC_RX_SC_ICV_ERROR_STATUS_0 register logs the SC numbers, which encountered
this error. And the status bit for each SC is set on the first occurrence of an ICV error in that
- SC. It has no relation to ICV threshold settings. And the status bits do not generate any
interrupt.
- When the number of ICV errors exceed the threshold, programmed in
MACSECRX_ICV_ERROR_CONTROL register, hardware triggers the nonsecure interrupt. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 to MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.ICV_ERROR bit field. Nonsecure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event. The following table summarizes Interrupt plus Threshold count capabilities for various events.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Table 10.32 Interrupt and Threshold Count Capabilities
- Error Event
- Status
- Threshold
- Interrupt
- Stats Counter
- ICV Errors - Aggregate of all
- SCs
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- No
- ICV Errors per SC
- Yes
- No
- No
- Yes
- Replay Protection per SC
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- Yes
- CRC Errors in Received Pkt
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- MACSEC_TX_INPKTS_CRCIN_N
- OTVALID_LO/HI_0
- MACSEC_RX_INPKTS_CRCIN_N
- OTVALID_LO/HI_0
- Encrypted Packets in Ingress
traffic
- No
- No
- No
- No
- Lookup Miss
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- Yes for "MACSEC tagged"
packets: InPktsNoSAError
- No for Bypass "MACSEC
untagged"
- RX: Non MACSEC Packets
- No
- No
- No
- Yes: InPktsNoTag
- RX: Bad MACSEC tags
(SecTag, ICV)
- No
- No
- No
- Yes: InPktsBadTag
- REPLAY_ERROR
- This error occurs when MACSEC_CONTROL0.RX_REPLAY_PROT_EN=1 and when the incoming
packets PN value is not within the permitted PN_window value.
- Details of the SCs and ANs, which failed the replay check are logged in
- MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS0_0 and
MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS1_0 registers. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 in the corresponding bit locations of MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS0_0
and MACSEC_RX_SC_REPLAY_ERROR_STATUS1_0 registers. This auto clears MACSEC_RX_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.REPLAY_ERROR register. Nonsecure interrupt will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Tx Lookup Miss Interrupt
This event occurs when there is no hit in both Tx BYPASS and SC LUT.
- This event can assert a nonsecure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=1. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.TX_LKUP_MISS register. Nonsecure interrupt will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Rx Lookup Miss Interrupt

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
This event occurs when there is no hit in Rx SC and BYPASS LUT.
- This event can assert a secure/non-secure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=0/1. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.RX_LKUP_MISS register field. Nonsecure interrupt will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Debug Buffer Interrupt
- This event indicates to software, that the programmed trigger event has been hit and the
corresponding packet has been captured in the debug buffer. The hit trigger event detail is logged in the register: MACSEC_<TX/RX>_DEBUG_STATUS_0. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to clear MACSEC_<TX/RX>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0. DBG_BUF_CAPTURE_DONE
register field. Nonsecure interrupt line will be de-asserted if there is no other pending event. Write 1 to clear the bit set in the MACSEC_<TX/RX>_DEBUG _STATUS_0 register.
- Handling Secure Interrupt
- Uninitialized Key in Tx/Rx Key Table LUT
This occurs when an invalid/uninitialized key is attempted for use (for the ICV generation in the Tx Side and ICV validation in the Rx side). Details of the SCs and ANs that hit this error can be found by reading these registers:
- MACSEC_<TX/RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS0_0, MACSEC_<TX/
- RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS1_0
To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt:
- Write 1 to the corresponding bit locations of MACSEC_<TX/
RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS0_0, MACSEC_<TX/RX>_SC_KEY_INVALID_STATUS1_0.
- This auto clears MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.< TX/RX>_UNINIT_KEY_SLOT register
field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Secure Register Access Violation
This occurs when a non-TZ entity tries to access TZ register space in MACsec. The error is logged in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0. SECURE_REG_VIOL register field. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 to MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0. SECURE_REG_VIOL register field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Tx Lookup Miss Interrupt
This event occurs when there is no hit in both Tx BYPASS and Tx SC_INDEX LUTs.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- This event can assert a secure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.TX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=0. The error is logged in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.TX_LKUP_MISS register field. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.TX_LKUP_MISS register field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Rx Lookup Miss Interrupt
This event occurs when there is no hit in Rx BYPASS LUT.
- This event can assert a secure interrupt if
MACSEC_CONTROL0.RX_LKP_MISS_NON_SECURE_INTR=0. The error is logged in MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.RX_LKUP_MISS register field. To clear the status and de-assert the interrupt: Write 1 in the MACSEC_INTERRUPT_STATUS0_0.RX_LKUP_MISS register field. Secure interrupt is de-asserted if there is no other pending event.
- Handling Safety Interrupts
Safety Interrupts are controlled using following registers.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_MASK1_0. SFTY_ERR_UNCORR_INT_EN
Status for the Safety Interrupts can be monitored using following registers.
- MACSEC_INTERRUPT_COMMON_STATUS_0. MSEC_SFTY_ERR_INTR
- Run Time Reset Assertion Flow
There are metastability concerns when reset is applied to MAC or MACsec block during run time. To make sure that there is no metastability concern in these cases, follow the flow defined in the "Reset Special Cases" section.
#### 10.7.3.3 Configuring MACsec LUTs
MACsec contains the list of LUTs in both Tx (Ingress) and Rx (Egress) directions. These LUTs can be programmed using indirect-addressing mode, as explained in the following sections.
- GCM KEY TABLE LUT
- SC BYPASS LUT
- SC INDEX LUT
- SC STATE LUT
- SA STATE LUT
- SC PARAMETER LUT

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
##### 10.7.3.3.1 Steps to Configure Tx/Rx KEY TABLE LUT
This is done using GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG, GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers. Step1: Configure GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers.
- For write operation, configure the GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers with the data
that must be written to the LUT at a particular index.
- For read operation, the GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0,1,…12] registers contains LUT data after the
transaction is complete. Ordering requirement:
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0] contains the least significant bits of the LUT data and
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[12] contains most significant bits of the LUT data. (The
programming example mentioned in the next section illustrates this requirement.) Step2: Configure the MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0 register:
- Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.CTLR_SEL=0/1 to select Tx/Rx GCM KEY
TABLE LUT. Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.RW=0/1 to read/write from the selected LUT.
- Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.TABLE_INDEX= index# from/to which data
should be written/read from the selected LUT.
- Program MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.UPDATE=1 to start the update operation
- Software should poll for MACSEC_GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG_0.UPDATE=0 to confirm that the
update operation is completed.
- Example
Objective: To load (write) the following content into index 3 of TX_GCM_KEYTABLE_LUT.
- Table 10.33 TX_GCM_KEYTABLE_LUT
- ENTRY_VALID[384]
- HKEY[383:256]
- SAK[255:0]
0x23457685……64956842 0x14268579….32658925 Steps: Program GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA registers as:
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[12] = 0x1
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[11] = 0x23457685
…….

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[8] = 0x64956842
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[7] = 0x14268579
…….
- GCM_KEYTABLE_DATA[0] = 0x32658925
- Program GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG fields
- CTRL_SEL = TX
R/W = 1 (WRITE)
- TABLE_INDEX = 0x3
- UPDATE = 1(START) ß--- this bit triggers the hardware to update the LUT
- Poll for GCM_KEYTABLE_CONFIG UPDATE field to become 0 (This indicates that LUT is
updated successfully).
##### 10.7.3.3.2 Steps to Configure Tx/Rx SA_STATE, SC_PARAM and SC_STATE LUTs
This is done using LUT_CONFIG_0, LUT_DATA [0…6] registers. Step1: Configure the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers:
- For write operation, configure the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers with the data that must be
written into the selected LUT at a particular index. For read operation, the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers contains the LUT data after the transaction is complete. Ordering requirement:
- LUT_DATA [0] contains the least significant bits and LUT_DATA [6] contains the most
significant bits of the LUT data. Step2: Configure the LUT_CONFIG_0 register:
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. LUT_SEL= <2=SC_PARAM, 3=SC_STATE> to select the LUT that
must be written into/read from.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. CTLR_SEL=0/1 to select Tx/Rx of the preceding LUT type
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0.RW=0/1 to write/read from the selected LUT
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX= index# from/to which data should written/
read from the selected LUT.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=1 to start the update operation
- Software should poll for LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=0 to confirm that the update operation is
completed.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Example
Objective: To read data from index 4 of TX_SC_PARAM LUT. Steps: Program the MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0 register fields.
- CONTROL_SEL = 0 (TX)
R/W = 0 (READ)
- LUT_SEL = 2 (SC_PARAM)
- TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX = 4
- UPDATE = 1 (START)
Poll until register field MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0.UPDATE becomes 0. Read the LUT_DATA[6,…0] registers to see the contents of TX_SC_PARAM LUT at index 2. Various fields in TX_SC_PARAM LUT can be extracted in the following bitmapped way. {key_index_start, PN_max, PN_threshold, TCI, SCI, VLAN_IN_CLR} = {LUT_DATA[0], LUT_DATA[1],
- LUT_DATA[2], LUT_DATA[3], LUT_DATA[4]};
##### 10.7.3.3.3 Steps to Configure Tx/Rx BYPASS and SC_INDEX LUTs
These LUTs are also configured using indirect addressing mode. The only difference is that VALID bits of each LUT entry are moved from SRAM to Registers. (This change permits software to invalidate quickly all the unused entries during MACsec initial configuration.) Step 1: Write 1 to the corresponding bit locations of the following registers to enable the required Bypass and SC_INDEX LUT entries.
- MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_RX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_TX_BYP_LUT_VALID
- MACSEC_RX_BYP_LUT_VALID
Step 2: Configure the MACSEC_LUT_DATA [0…6] registers:
- For write operation, program the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers with the data that must be
written into the selected LUT at a particular index. For read operation, the LUT_DATA [0…6] registers contains LUT data after the transaction is complete. Ordering requirement:

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- LUT_DATA [0] contains the least significant bits and LUT_DATA [6] contains most
significant bits of the LUT data. Step 3: Configure the LUT_CONFIG_0 register:
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. LUT_SEL= <0=BYPASS, 1=SC_INDX> to select the LUT that must be
written into/read from.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. CTLR_SEL=0/1 to select Tx/Rx of the preceding LUT type
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0.RW=0/1 to write/read from the selected LUT
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX= index# from/to which data should written/
read from the selected LUT.
- Program LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=1 to start the update operation
- Software must poll for LUT_CONFIG_0. UPDATE=0 to confirm that the update operation is
completed.
- Example
Objective: To write the following data into index 6 of TX_SC_INDX LUT.
- MAC SA = 112233445566
- MAC SA MASK = 88FF00
- MAC DA= AABBCCDDEE77
- MAC DA MASK = 11AB00
… … Steps:
- Program MACSEC_TX_SC_INDX_LUT_VALID[6] = 1
Program the MACSEC_LUT_DATA[0…6] register with the preceding write data.
- For example, program
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [0] = 0x33445566
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [1] = 0xFF001122
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [2] = 0xDDEE7788
- MACSEC_LUT_DATA [3] = 0x00AABBCC

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
…. …. Program the MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0 register fields.
- CONTROL_SEL = 0 (TX)
R/W = 1 (WRITE)
- LUT_SEL = 1 (SC_INDX)
- TABLE_ENTRY_INDEX = 6
- UPDATE = 1 (START)
- Poll until the register field MACSEC_LUT_CONFIG_0.UPDATE becomes 0 to confirm that the
data is written successfully into the LUT.
#### 10.7.3.4 Inter-Packet Gap (IPG) Programming in MAC
At the transmit side, packets coming out 1GMAC/XGMAC must have an additional IPG in addition to the minimum IPG (12 bytes) mentioned by the standard. The additional IPG is required to insert MACsec headers in the transmitting packets. It can be either: 24 bytes (8 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV) 32 bytes (16 bytes SECTAG + 16 bytes ICV)
##### 10.7.3.4.1 1GMAC
MAC_Configuration.IPG[2:0] provides the IPG values defined when EIPGEN=0: Current settings for IPG are: 0x0 (IPG96): 96 bit times IPG 0x1 (IPG88): 88 bit times IPG 0x2 (IPG80): 80 bit times IPG 0x3 (IPG72): 72 bit times IPG 0x4 (IPG64): 64 bit times IPG 0x5 (IPG56): 56 bit times IPG 0x6 (IPG48): 48 bit times IPG 0x7 (IPG40): 40 bit times IPG
- MAC_Ext_Configuration.EIPGEN: Enables extended IPG
- When Extended IPG (EIPG) is enabled, then {MAC_Ext_Configuration.EIPG[4:0],
MAC_Configuration.IPG[2:0]} à NewIPG[7:0] provides Extended IPG values (in steps of 8 bits):
- Extended IPG = 96 + NewIPG[7:0]*8
- Example: If EIPGEN=1, NewIPG=12, then Extended IPG=96+96=192 or 24B

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
##### 10.7.3.4.2 XGMAC
- MAC_Tx_configuration.IFP: Enables extended IPG
Current settings for IPG[2:0] are: 3'b000: 96 bit times 3'b001: 88 bit times 3'b010: 80 bit times 3'b011: 72 bit times 3'b100: 64 bit times 3'b101: 3'b111: Reserved MAC_Extended_Configuration.EIPG: Provides Extended IPG as defined.
- When the MAC_Tx_configuration.IFP bit is set, the minimum IPG is increased in steps of 32
bits depending on the programming of the MAC_Extended_Configuration.EIPG field and IPG field in the MAC_Tx_Configuration register. {EIPG,IPG}: Minimum Inter-Packet Gap-->96 + {EIPG,IPG}*32 - - - - - - - 10'h000: 96 bit times 10'h001: 128 bit times 10'h010: 160 bit times 10'h011: 192 bit times 10'h100: 224 bit times ... 10'h3FF: 32832 bit times
- Example: If {EIPG, IPG}=3, then Extended IPG = 96+3*32=192 bits or 24 B
#### 10.7.3.5 Programming Block Level Firewalls
The MACsec AMAP space is protected using BLFs (Block Level Firewalls). The list of BLFs and the region, which each BLF is protecting is shown in the following diagram.
- MACsec Tx/Rx KEY TABLE LUTs are protected by MACSEC_TZ BLF. Hence, software should
program MACSEC_TZ BLF to permit access only from TZ entity.
- As a second-level protection, MACsec IP also does the TZ check, (for example, check if the
master that is accessing TZ space, has PPROT[1]=0). This second level protection is guarded by the fuse input to MACsec inside the IP.
- All other MACsec LUTs are protected by MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP BLF. Hence software should
program MACSEC_RM_TX_BYP BLF to permit access either from TZ entity or from an RM entity based on the platform.
- Software should program MACSEC_RM_RX_BYP BLF, MACSEC_RM_CFG BLF,
MACSEC_RM_ERR_BLF to permit access only from RM entity.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
**Figure 10.66 Block Level Firewalls**
#### 10.7.3.6 Global Configuration Register Fields Description
- Configuration bit
- Reset value
- Comments
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_ENB
By default, MACsec Tx controller will be disabled. (Packets coming to MACsec Tx get bypassed)
- This bit should be programmed to 1 to enable
MACsec in transmit direction.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_ENB
By default, MACsec Rx controller will be disabled. (Packets coming to MACsec Rx get bypassed)
- This bit should be programmed to 1 to enable
MACsec in receive direction.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Configuration bit
- Reset value
- Comments
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.VALIDATE_FR
- AMES[22:21]
- STRICT
Used in receive direction during SC lookup stage.
- Based on this setting and various error scenarios,
respective counters are incremented and also packet is sent to MAC with corrupted CRC or good CRC. 0 = DISABLED:
- ICV check is disabled. SecTag and ICV fields are
removed from the frame before forwarding it to the next module. 1 = CHECK:
- ICV check is done. And the InPktsInValid counter
is updated based on ICV check result. Packet is sent without corrupting CRC to MAC. (after removing SecTag and ICV) 2 = STRICT:
- ICV check is done. If ICV check fails, the frame is
dropped (CRC of the frame is corrupted) and InPktsNotValid counter is updated.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_LOOKUP_
- MISS
- DROP
- When the packet does not hit any of the Bypass
or SC-Index LUT, packet will be dropped or bypassed based on this bit. 0 = DROP: Corrupt the packet on tables lookup miss. 1 = BYPASS: Bypass the packet on tables lookup miss.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_LOOKUP_
- MISS
- DROP
- When there is a Bypass LUT miss, packet is
corrupted or bypassed based on this bit.
- Note: This bit is applicable only for Bypass LUT
and not SC index LuT. 0 = DROP: Corrupt the packet on bypass tables lookup miss. 1 = BYPASS: Bypass the packet on bypass tables lookup miss.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_REPLAY_
- PROT_EN
- ENABLE
- Replay Protection can be enabled or disabled
using this bit. 0 = DISABLE: Disable replay protection. 1 = ENABLE: Enable replay protection.
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.TX_LKP_MIS
S_NON_SECURE_INTR
- SECURE_INTR
- When Tx lookup miss event occurs, hardware will
assert secure/non-secure intr based on this bit. 0 = SECURE_INTR 1 = NON_SECURE_INTR
- MACSEC_CONTROL0_0.RX_LKP_MIS
S_NON_SECURE_INTR
- SECURE_INTR
- When Rx lookup miss event occurs, hardware will
assert secure/non-secure intr based on this bit. 0 = SECURE_INTR 1 = NON_SECURE_INTR

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
- Configuration bit
- Reset value
- Comments
MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.
- INT_LPBK_MODE
Loopback disabled.
- Internal Loopback mode. When this bit is set,
- MACsec Tx output lines will be connected to
- MACsec Rx input lines internally as shown in Block
Diagram.
- The loopback is implemented in the MACsec
Wrapper at:
- RGMII interface for ETHER_QOS MACsec
instance.
- XGMII interface for MGBE MACsec
instances. 0 = DISABLE: Disable Loopback. 1 = ENABLE: Enable Loopback.
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_MTU_CH
- ECK_ENB
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.RX_MTU_CH
- ECK_ENB
- MACsec Transmit and Receive Maximum
- Transmission Unit Check control bits (Controlled
separately)
- Note: When 1GMAC and XGMAC do not perform
an MTU Check, this functionality is added in MACSEC. 0 = DISABLE: Disable MTU check. 1 = ENABLE: Enable MTU check.
- MACSEC_CONTROL1_0.TX_LUT_PRIO
- RITY
- MACsec Transmit SC and Bypass LUTs' priority
control 0 = SC: SC Index LUT has the priority over Bypass LUT. 1 = BYPASS: Bypass LUT has the priority over SC-Index LUT. MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0.
- RX_AES_MODE[1:0]
- AES-128 bit
- MACsec Receive AES Mode of operation
0 = AES128:
- AES-128bit Key
1 = Reserved 2 = AES256:
- AES-256bit Key
3 = Reserved MACSEC_GCM_AES_CONTROL_0.
- TX_AES_MODE[1:0]
- AES-128 bit
- MACsec Transmit AES Mode of operation
0 = AES128:
- AES-128bit Key
1 = AES192:
- AES-192bit Key, Not supported
2 = AES256:
- AES-256bit Key
3 = UNDEFINED: This setting is reserved.
- MACSEC_TX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
- MACSEC_RX_MTU_LEN_0[15:0]
0x3fff MTU_LENGTH_THRESHOLD: 0 is illegal. Non-Zero value of X indicates packet length.
- Greater than X will be treated as violating MTU
check.

- MACsec Registers}.Body)
