# 10.8.2 Ethernet Controller Major Features

@{Key=10.8.2; Title=Ethernet Controller Major Features; Body=#### 10.8.2.1 Features Supported in Hardware
The Ethernet Controller supports the following features:
- SerDes interfaces
- XFI
4x10.3125 Gbps per differential pair
- Support for 12" of FR4 with one connector
Low EMI and power due to nominal 500 mV differential drive. Slew control for improved signal integrity and lower EMI. Tx and Rx signals each are a 100 Ohm differential pair, AC coupled. - - - - -
- USXGMII
4x (10G/5G/2.5G) per differential pair Support for serial Management Interface MDIO and MDC.
- Each interface supports up to 10 Rx and Tx DMA channels (and queues) shared across five
VMs.

10G Ethernet Controller Forwarding Rx multicast/broadcast packets to multiple queues.
- Supports jumbo frames of up to 16 KB
- Hardware virtualization supports one (Hypervisor) + five (Guest OS) + one RM (Resource
Manager Driver), to share the Ethernet Controller between up to five virtual machines. Sixth VM (called VM5) is provided for shared PTP timestamp reading by all VMs.
- Packet Integrity protection using IEEE 802.1AE–MACsec protocol on each interface
- Low predictable latency for audio packet processing (audio synchronized to network time)
- Data center Bridging with support for PFC (Priority Flow Control)/PAUSE frames
- Flexible parser
- TCP/UDP segmentation offload on Transmit and reassembly on Receive
#### 10.8.2.2 Feature Supported in Software
802.1Qat-Stream Reservation Protocol: Used to reserve the bandwidth from end-to-end. Software sets up all intermediate devices with bandwidth requirements per queue. Security - 802.1X: 802.1X defines the KaY protocol, which is used by MACsec software to set up MACsec keys on both ends of the 10 GE link.
- Time Sensitive Networking (TSN): IEEE 802.1AS-Rev: Timing and Synchronization
#### 10.8.2.3 Features with Limitations
- Supports only one outstanding TSO stream per TX DMA channel
- LRO feature is supported with RSS enabled in hardware. This limits the maximum TCP
streams with LRO to 10 (number of queues) per MGBE instance. ARP offload cannot be enabled when preemption is enabled.
- For PTP offload engine to work, PTP packets should come in only as Express packets. They
should never arrive as Preemptable packets. Similarly, PTP packets should be transmitted only as Express packets (on eMAC) and not as Peemptable packets (on pMAC). When Preemption is enabled, only up to 128 bytes of packet can be used for FRP lookup. For best performance, TSO feature should be used with internal TSO memory.
- If preemption is enabled, MGBE can only duplicate either Express or Preemptable Multicast/
Broadcast packets but not both. MGBE does not support dynamic switch between 10 G and 5 G link speed.
#### 10.8.2.4 Features Not Supported
- IEEE 802.1CB–Frame Replication and Elimination
This can be enabled in the intermediate switch if required. Can also be provided in software if needed.
- Wake on Lan (WOL)

10G Ethernet Controller
- MGBE does not support this feature natively. The external PHY in platforms, which require
this functionality supports the WoL feature. The External PHY can communicate Wake on LAN Status to SoC through GPIO_PHY_INT pin.
#### 10.8.2.5 Internal Features
##### 10.8.2.5.1 XGMAC Features
##### 10.8.2.5.2 MAC Core
The XGMAC controller includes the following features:
- Full-duplex operation at 10/5/2.5 Gbps (XGMII)
Flow control using back pressure support. Link fault detection in the XGMII receiver and automatic fault signaling in the XGMII Transmit interface
- Clause 78 (Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE) feature) of the IEEE 802.3az, standard support
- Separate transmission, reception, and slave (control and status register) interface to the
application
- Configurable big-endian or little-endian support for transmission and reception datapaths
128-bit data transfer interface on the system side
- Separate status word returned for each transmitted frame and up to 128-bit status word for
each received frame
- Preamble, SFD, and other control character insertion (in transmit path) and deletion (in
receive path).
- Programmable minimum Inter-Packet Gap (IPG) from 64-bit times to 224-bit times
In 10G operation, frames that do not follow the preamble and SFD patterns described in IEEE 802.3-2008, Clause 46 are dropped.
- Supports DIC (Deficit Idle Count) algorithm to maintain the average IPG gap of 12Bytes
between frames in XGMII mode
- Thirty-two-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) generation for transmit frames and checking
for received frames. Programmable support for receive-side CRC stripping. CRC addition or replacement on transmit side controllable on a per-frame basis Padding in transmit side for short (less-than-64 byte long) frames received from application.
- Pad stripping on the receive side for short frames
- Programmable source address inclusion or replacement for Transmit frames
- Programmable frame length, supporting standard, or jumbo (extendable to 16 KB) Ethernet
frames
- Support for jumbo frames up to 9 KB expandable up to 16 KB

10G Ethernet Controller
- Truncation support for oversized frame reception and transmission at fixed thresholds of
2,048, 10,240, or 16,383 bytes. Alternatively, the truncation thresholds can be programmed in steps of 1 KB from 2 KB onwards.
- Supports IEEE 802.3 flow-control and priority-based flow control (PFC)
- Optional forwarding of received PAUSE/PFC control frames to the application
- Automatic transmission of zero-quanta PAUSE/PFC frames on flow-control input
deassertion
- Support for unicast PAUSE/PFC frame reception
- Transmission of PAUSE/PFC frames triggered by either software-controlled register bit or
optional input signal or based on Queue fill level (in MTL and AXI configurations).
- Support for VLAN-tagged frame processing in compliance with the IEEE 802.1Q standard
- Support for VLAN-tagged frame detection, stripping, and filtering
- Support for VLAN tag inclusion, replacement, or deletion in transmit frames through per-
frame Sideband control signals and the CSR Support for up to two Stacked-VLAN tagged or QinQ tagged packets. Support for the following flexible address-filtering modes for received frames: Up to 32 destination address (DA) perfect match address filters with masks for each byte. Up to 31 source address (SA) perfect match filters with masks for each byte. 64-bit, 128-bit, or 256-bit hash filter (optional) for multicast and unicast (DA) addresses. Option to pass all multicast-addressed frames. Promiscuous mode to pass all frames without any filtering for network monitoring.
- VLAN-based perfect matched and hash filtering
Up to eight Layer 3 and Layer 4-based (TCP or UDP over IPv4 or IPv6) match filters. Pass all incoming packets with a status report as determined by the filter.
- Control frame filtering other than PAUSE/PFC
- Option to forward all control frames other than PAUSE/PFC control frames
- Option to filter unicast control frames that fail the DA address perfect match filter
- Network statistics with RMON or MIB Counters (RFC2819/RFC2665)
64-bit RMON counters to avoid fast wrap-up at 10 Gbps data rates. For example, octet counters
- Optional features to support Ethernet packet timestamping as described in IEEE 1588-2008
(64-bit timestamps given in the Tx or Rx status of each packet)
- Provides Tx timestamps in CSR Status Register for two-step timestamping as Tx status is
not provided back to the host in XGMAC-AXI configurations. Option to store up to 16 timestamps with packet identifier in the CSR
- One-step timestamping in Tx direction with the host providing a 64-bit timestamp along
with Ts packet. XGMAC-CORE parses PTP (over Ethernet) packets and insert or correct timestamp in appropriate header field. Parses received frames for PTP packets and take timestamps as per configured node.
- Provides registers for asymmetric time correction

10G Ethernet Controller
- Supports internal system time generation and update along with option of taking reference
time as input.
- Support for dynamic selection of reference time source through control bit in CSR
- Flexibility to control the Pulse-Per-Second (PPS) output signal (ptp_pps_o)
- Support for capturing timestamp based on external trigger and providing it in CSR
- Optional PTP offload module to support automatic generation and transmission of SYNC
and Delay request/Response PTP packets Loopback capability at XGMII (transmit data to receive path).
- MDIO Master interface (optional) for multiple PHY devices and their configuration and
management.
- Interrupt generation mechanism through MDIO for hot-plugged XENPAK
- IPv4 header checksum offload on reception
- TCP, UDP, or ICMP checksum offload (IPv4 and IPv6) for received packets
- Receive-Side Scaling (RSS) based on Toeplitz HASH algorithm. The incoming traffic is
segregated into (up to) 16 DMA channels based on the RSS hash. IP out-of-sequence detection for TCP/UDP over IP traffic in each channel based on the RSS hash. The out-of- sequence status is given along with the data.
##### 10.8.2.5.3 MAC Transaction Layer
The MTL block consists of two sets of FIFOs: Transmit FIFO with programmable threshold capability. Receive FIFO with a programmable threshold (default 64 bytes).
- Common Transmit and Receive Features
128-bit, Transaction Layer block that bridges the application and the MAC
- Ten queues in single RAM on TX side and another ten on RX side
- Programmable burst length, up to half the size of the MTL Rx queue or Tx queue size, to
support burst data transfer in the XGMAC-MTL
- Supports store and forward and threshold modes for data transfer in FIFO. Programmable
threshold capability for each queue (default of 64 bytes) Programmable size for each queue buffer.
- Transmit Features
- Transmit memory size from 1 KB to 32 KB for single queue configurations. Up to 128 KB for
multiple queues configurations, with size configurable in powers of 2.
- Programmable size with granularity of 256 bytes per queue
- Checksum module to calculate and insert IPv4 (L3) header checksum and TCP, UDP, or ICMP
(L4) checksum in each queue

10G Ethernet Controller
- The TX queues can be mapped into eight traffic classes for scheduling and bandwidth
allocation. Multiple (up to eight) traffic classes are supported, with the following scheduling algorithms. The number of traffic classes and transmit queues can be independently selected so that the number of transmit queues is always greater than or equal to the number of traffic classes.
- Weighted Round Robin (WRR)
- Deficit-Weighted Round Robin (DWRR) (when DCB enabled)
- Weighted Fair Queuing (WFQ) (when DCB enabled)
- Strict Priority (SP)
- Packet level control for
- VLAN tag insertion or replacement
- Ethernet source address insertion
- Checksum insertion
- One-step timestamp correction
- Timestamp control
- CRC and pad control
- When audio-video bridging is enabled, it supports credit-based Shaper scheduling
algorithms in configurations with multiple queues. Forwarding the Transmit status to the application. Useful when time-sensitive networking is enabled using Time-Based Scheduling (TBS).
- Receive Features
- Rx FIFO size from 4 KB to 32 KB for single queue configurations. Up to 192 KB for multiple
queues configurations, with size configurable in powers of 2.
- Programmable size with granularity of 256 bytes per queue
Insertion of Rx status vectors into the Rx queue after the EOP transfer (in Threshold mode) and before SOP (in Store-and-Forward mode) in XGMAC-MTL configuration. In store-and- forward mode, the status is available before the packet data. Therefore, the application can take the packet processing decision even before the packet is read from the queue. This enables multiple-frame storage in the Rx queue without requiring additional memories blocks to store the Rx status of packets. Option to filter all error packets on reception and not forward them to the application in the store-and-forward mode.
- Option to forward the undersized good packets
- Automatic generation of Pause packet control to the MAC based on the Rx queue fill level
with programmable Flow control thresholds in each Rx queue.
- Received packets are mapped into the multiple queues based on the Priority field of the
VLAN tag or on Packet Type (DCB control packet, and so on). Option to select Audio-Video Bridging feature on Rx side only (AVB Listener applications) by un-selecting this feature on Tx side

10G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.8.2.5.4 DMA
The DMA block exchanges the data between the MTL block and the host memory. The host can use a set of registers (DMA CSR) to control the DMA operations. The DMA block supports the following features: 128-bit data transfers Multichannel Transmit and Receive engines (up to 10 Transmit and 10 Receive channels).
- Separate DMA channel in the Transmit path for each queue in MTL. Single or multiple DMA
channels for any number of queues in MTL Receive path Descriptor structure to support the following:
- Byte-aligned addressing for data buffer
Dual-buffer descriptor ring and support for 64-bit addressing in descriptor structure. Expandable descriptor with context descriptor for additional control and status information
- Descriptor architecture to permit large blocks of data transfer with minimum CPU
intervention (each descriptor can transfer up to 8 KB of data).
- TCP Segmentation offload (TSO) and IEEE 1588 timestamps
One-step PTP time correction in Tx, that is, input 64-bit timestamp provided in descriptor. Option to provide 64-bit timestamp for received packets.
- Option to give up to two VLAN tags in descriptor for insertion or replacement in Tx and
stripped VLAN tags in Rx
- Option to split the packet header (Layer 3 and Layer 4) and Layer 4 payload in different
buffers.
- Delivers RSS hash and Out-of-Sequence information for packets received with TCP/UDP
over IP payload
- Individual programmable burst size for Tx DMA and Rx DMA engines for optimal host bus
utilization
- Local memory for storing TSO headers for better performance
- Selectable number of Tx DMA channels with TCP Segmentation offload (TSO) feature
enabled. TSO engine to support TCP over IPv4/IPv6 segmentation
- Routing of received packets to the DMA channels based on RSS hash or the Ethernet DA or
VLAN Priority in multichannel DMA configurations. Register programmable RX buffer sizes for each DMA channel.
- Additional per-DMA channel interrupt for normal packet transfers
Per-packet Transmit and Receive Interrupt control in descriptors.
- Enhanced DMA (EDMA) architecture for better performance and throughput
- Supports prefetching and caching up to 32 descriptors for each DMA channel
- Descriptor fetches, data transfers, and Descriptor writes are de-linked and performed
independently to reduce gaps between data transfers of each DMA.
- TxDMA engines have capability to issue up to 16 outstanding requests for packet/burst
transfer.

10G Ethernet Controller
- DMA descriptor writes can be “posted”, so that next descriptor can be processed
immediately for next packet.
- Option to support L2 Network Virtualization protocol (VXLAN/NVGRE) stateless-offloading
functions are as follows:
- Recognition and processing of either VXLAN or NVGRE (selectable through programming)
based Tunneled packets.
- Checksum offload functions act on both outer UDP/IP header as well as the inner L3-L4
headers.
- TCP Segment offload Engine segments a tunneled packet into multiple segments each
with necessary tunneled packet headers
- Routing of the incoming tunneled packets based on VNI/TNI, FlowID (for NVGRE), Inner DA
and Optionally Inner VLAN Tag Supports Hash based mechanism to select the RxDMA channel for forwarding.
- Option to transfer the complete header (including Tunneling header and Inner Packet
header) and inner payload in to separate buffers.
- Support for processing both Tunneled (VxLAN/NVGRE) packets and Untunneled (normal)
packets simultaneously
- Time-sensitive conditional packet transmission by comparing the Slot Time information
provided in the descriptor (useful for AV applications)
##### 10.8.2.5.5 AXI Interface
- AXI Master Interface
The AXI master interface is compatible to interface with AXI-4 slave ports. It supports the following features: 40-bit address width, little-endian, and byte-invariant big-endian modes
- AXI low-power interface
128-bit data
- OKAY, SLVERR, and DECERR responses from AXI slaves
Software-selected type of AXI burst (fixed and variable length burst) in AXI master interface; option to select address-aligned bursts. AXI 4 KB boundary burst splitting and option to limit burst splitting boundary to 1 KB. Up to 256 outstanding Read and Write transactions with register-programmable control.
- Minimum of 2 outstanding requests per channel in maximum configuration of 10 TxDMA and
10 RxDMA channels One of the outstanding requests is reserved for high priority Descriptor operation.
- Posted writes during multiple data transfers from the AXI master interface to maximize the
bus utilization. AXI-ID based on DMA channel number. Each TX and RX DMA has its own ID for data transfer.

10G Ethernet Controller
- APB Slave Interface
CSR access is provided over 32-bit APB interface.
##### 10.8.2.5.6 Audio Video Support
XGMAC supports the following Audio Video (AV) features:
- Separate channels or queues for AV data transfer
- Up to eight queues on the Receive paths for AV traffic and seven queues on the Transmit
path for AV traffic
- IEEE 802.1-Qav specified credit-based shaper (CBS) algorithm for Transmit channels
- Single Tx FIFO and Rx FIFO (MTL) for all selected queues (system-side interface [AXI, or
native] remains the same).
##### 10.8.2.5.7 Time Sensitive Networking Features
XGMAC supports the following Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) features:
- IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015, Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic
- IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br, Frame preemption, and Interspersing Express Traffic
##### 10.8.2.5.8 Automotive Safety Features
The automotive safety features are targeted to improve the reliability and reduce the time taken to detect faults in the controller. XGMAC supports the following features for automotive safety:
- Error correction code (ECC) protection for memories
- On-chip datapath parity protection
- FSM parity and timeout protection
- Application/CSR interface timeout protection
##### 10.8.2.5.9 Monitoring, Testing and Debug
- Support for internal loopback on the XGMII/GMII for debugging
- DMA states (Tx and Rx) as status bits
- Current Tx or Rx Buffer pointer as status registers
- Current Tx or Rx Descriptor pointer as status registers
- Statistical counters to calculate the bandwidth served by each Transmit channel when DCB
support is enabled.

10G Ethernet Controller
- Provides debug status register that gives the status of FSMs in the Transmit and Receive
datapaths and FIFO fill-levels
- Provides Complete network Ethernet statistics (optional) with RMON-MIB counters (RFCs
2819 and 2665)
#### 10.8.2.6 Physical Coding Sublayer (PCS) Features
- PCS operates in 10G-BASE-R Mode. It provides an interface between MACsec and UPHY (PMA)
through a Media independent interface.
**Figure 10.68 XPCS Top-Level Diagram**

10G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.8.2.6.1 Transmit Block
The features of the transmit block are: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec
- MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox
Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds.
- Performs 64B/66B encoding. In these 66 bits, 64 bits are data bits and 2 bits are Sync
Header bits.
- Performs optional FEC encoding
- Performs scrambling of 64 data bits of PCS data
The data bits are scrambled before they are passed to UPHY as 32 bits @322.265625 MHz. The UPHY serializes this data at 10.3125 Gbps data rate.
##### 10.8.2.6.2 Receive Block
The features of the receive block are: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec
- MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox
- Performs 66-bit block alignment
- Performs optional FEC decoding
- Performs 64B/66B decoding
Carries out BER monitoring and generate pcs_signal_ok status as interface output.
- Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds
- Performs clock compensation between Rx recovered clock and Tx clock
#### 10.8.2.7 UPHY Features
- MGBE is connected to external devices through UPHY module. The connectivity of MGBE
instances to UPHY brick is shown in the following figure.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.69 MGBE Instances to UPHY**}(@{Key=10.8.2; Title=Ethernet Controller Major Features; Body=#### 10.8.2.1 Features Supported in Hardware
The Ethernet Controller supports the following features:
- SerDes interfaces
- XFI
4x10.3125 Gbps per differential pair
- Support for 12" of FR4 with one connector
Low EMI and power due to nominal 500 mV differential drive. Slew control for improved signal integrity and lower EMI. Tx and Rx signals each are a 100 Ohm differential pair, AC coupled. - - - - -
- USXGMII
4x (10G/5G/2.5G) per differential pair Support for serial Management Interface MDIO and MDC.
- Each interface supports up to 10 Rx and Tx DMA channels (and queues) shared across five
VMs.

10G Ethernet Controller Forwarding Rx multicast/broadcast packets to multiple queues.
- Supports jumbo frames of up to 16 KB
- Hardware virtualization supports one (Hypervisor) + five (Guest OS) + one RM (Resource
Manager Driver), to share the Ethernet Controller between up to five virtual machines. Sixth VM (called VM5) is provided for shared PTP timestamp reading by all VMs.
- Packet Integrity protection using IEEE 802.1AE–MACsec protocol on each interface
- Low predictable latency for audio packet processing (audio synchronized to network time)
- Data center Bridging with support for PFC (Priority Flow Control)/PAUSE frames
- Flexible parser
- TCP/UDP segmentation offload on Transmit and reassembly on Receive
#### 10.8.2.2 Feature Supported in Software
802.1Qat-Stream Reservation Protocol: Used to reserve the bandwidth from end-to-end. Software sets up all intermediate devices with bandwidth requirements per queue. Security - 802.1X: 802.1X defines the KaY protocol, which is used by MACsec software to set up MACsec keys on both ends of the 10 GE link.
- Time Sensitive Networking (TSN): IEEE 802.1AS-Rev: Timing and Synchronization
#### 10.8.2.3 Features with Limitations
- Supports only one outstanding TSO stream per TX DMA channel
- LRO feature is supported with RSS enabled in hardware. This limits the maximum TCP
streams with LRO to 10 (number of queues) per MGBE instance. ARP offload cannot be enabled when preemption is enabled.
- For PTP offload engine to work, PTP packets should come in only as Express packets. They
should never arrive as Preemptable packets. Similarly, PTP packets should be transmitted only as Express packets (on eMAC) and not as Peemptable packets (on pMAC). When Preemption is enabled, only up to 128 bytes of packet can be used for FRP lookup. For best performance, TSO feature should be used with internal TSO memory.
- If preemption is enabled, MGBE can only duplicate either Express or Preemptable Multicast/
Broadcast packets but not both. MGBE does not support dynamic switch between 10 G and 5 G link speed.
#### 10.8.2.4 Features Not Supported
- IEEE 802.1CB–Frame Replication and Elimination
This can be enabled in the intermediate switch if required. Can also be provided in software if needed.
- Wake on Lan (WOL)

10G Ethernet Controller
- MGBE does not support this feature natively. The external PHY in platforms, which require
this functionality supports the WoL feature. The External PHY can communicate Wake on LAN Status to SoC through GPIO_PHY_INT pin.
#### 10.8.2.5 Internal Features
##### 10.8.2.5.1 XGMAC Features
##### 10.8.2.5.2 MAC Core
The XGMAC controller includes the following features:
- Full-duplex operation at 10/5/2.5 Gbps (XGMII)
Flow control using back pressure support. Link fault detection in the XGMII receiver and automatic fault signaling in the XGMII Transmit interface
- Clause 78 (Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE) feature) of the IEEE 802.3az, standard support
- Separate transmission, reception, and slave (control and status register) interface to the
application
- Configurable big-endian or little-endian support for transmission and reception datapaths
128-bit data transfer interface on the system side
- Separate status word returned for each transmitted frame and up to 128-bit status word for
each received frame
- Preamble, SFD, and other control character insertion (in transmit path) and deletion (in
receive path).
- Programmable minimum Inter-Packet Gap (IPG) from 64-bit times to 224-bit times
In 10G operation, frames that do not follow the preamble and SFD patterns described in IEEE 802.3-2008, Clause 46 are dropped.
- Supports DIC (Deficit Idle Count) algorithm to maintain the average IPG gap of 12Bytes
between frames in XGMII mode
- Thirty-two-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) generation for transmit frames and checking
for received frames. Programmable support for receive-side CRC stripping. CRC addition or replacement on transmit side controllable on a per-frame basis Padding in transmit side for short (less-than-64 byte long) frames received from application.
- Pad stripping on the receive side for short frames
- Programmable source address inclusion or replacement for Transmit frames
- Programmable frame length, supporting standard, or jumbo (extendable to 16 KB) Ethernet
frames
- Support for jumbo frames up to 9 KB expandable up to 16 KB

10G Ethernet Controller
- Truncation support for oversized frame reception and transmission at fixed thresholds of
2,048, 10,240, or 16,383 bytes. Alternatively, the truncation thresholds can be programmed in steps of 1 KB from 2 KB onwards.
- Supports IEEE 802.3 flow-control and priority-based flow control (PFC)
- Optional forwarding of received PAUSE/PFC control frames to the application
- Automatic transmission of zero-quanta PAUSE/PFC frames on flow-control input
deassertion
- Support for unicast PAUSE/PFC frame reception
- Transmission of PAUSE/PFC frames triggered by either software-controlled register bit or
optional input signal or based on Queue fill level (in MTL and AXI configurations).
- Support for VLAN-tagged frame processing in compliance with the IEEE 802.1Q standard
- Support for VLAN-tagged frame detection, stripping, and filtering
- Support for VLAN tag inclusion, replacement, or deletion in transmit frames through per-
frame Sideband control signals and the CSR Support for up to two Stacked-VLAN tagged or QinQ tagged packets. Support for the following flexible address-filtering modes for received frames: Up to 32 destination address (DA) perfect match address filters with masks for each byte. Up to 31 source address (SA) perfect match filters with masks for each byte. 64-bit, 128-bit, or 256-bit hash filter (optional) for multicast and unicast (DA) addresses. Option to pass all multicast-addressed frames. Promiscuous mode to pass all frames without any filtering for network monitoring.
- VLAN-based perfect matched and hash filtering
Up to eight Layer 3 and Layer 4-based (TCP or UDP over IPv4 or IPv6) match filters. Pass all incoming packets with a status report as determined by the filter.
- Control frame filtering other than PAUSE/PFC
- Option to forward all control frames other than PAUSE/PFC control frames
- Option to filter unicast control frames that fail the DA address perfect match filter
- Network statistics with RMON or MIB Counters (RFC2819/RFC2665)
64-bit RMON counters to avoid fast wrap-up at 10 Gbps data rates. For example, octet counters
- Optional features to support Ethernet packet timestamping as described in IEEE 1588-2008
(64-bit timestamps given in the Tx or Rx status of each packet)
- Provides Tx timestamps in CSR Status Register for two-step timestamping as Tx status is
not provided back to the host in XGMAC-AXI configurations. Option to store up to 16 timestamps with packet identifier in the CSR
- One-step timestamping in Tx direction with the host providing a 64-bit timestamp along
with Ts packet. XGMAC-CORE parses PTP (over Ethernet) packets and insert or correct timestamp in appropriate header field. Parses received frames for PTP packets and take timestamps as per configured node.
- Provides registers for asymmetric time correction

10G Ethernet Controller
- Supports internal system time generation and update along with option of taking reference
time as input.
- Support for dynamic selection of reference time source through control bit in CSR
- Flexibility to control the Pulse-Per-Second (PPS) output signal (ptp_pps_o)
- Support for capturing timestamp based on external trigger and providing it in CSR
- Optional PTP offload module to support automatic generation and transmission of SYNC
and Delay request/Response PTP packets Loopback capability at XGMII (transmit data to receive path).
- MDIO Master interface (optional) for multiple PHY devices and their configuration and
management.
- Interrupt generation mechanism through MDIO for hot-plugged XENPAK
- IPv4 header checksum offload on reception
- TCP, UDP, or ICMP checksum offload (IPv4 and IPv6) for received packets
- Receive-Side Scaling (RSS) based on Toeplitz HASH algorithm. The incoming traffic is
segregated into (up to) 16 DMA channels based on the RSS hash. IP out-of-sequence detection for TCP/UDP over IP traffic in each channel based on the RSS hash. The out-of- sequence status is given along with the data.
##### 10.8.2.5.3 MAC Transaction Layer
The MTL block consists of two sets of FIFOs: Transmit FIFO with programmable threshold capability. Receive FIFO with a programmable threshold (default 64 bytes).
- Common Transmit and Receive Features
128-bit, Transaction Layer block that bridges the application and the MAC
- Ten queues in single RAM on TX side and another ten on RX side
- Programmable burst length, up to half the size of the MTL Rx queue or Tx queue size, to
support burst data transfer in the XGMAC-MTL
- Supports store and forward and threshold modes for data transfer in FIFO. Programmable
threshold capability for each queue (default of 64 bytes) Programmable size for each queue buffer.
- Transmit Features
- Transmit memory size from 1 KB to 32 KB for single queue configurations. Up to 128 KB for
multiple queues configurations, with size configurable in powers of 2.
- Programmable size with granularity of 256 bytes per queue
- Checksum module to calculate and insert IPv4 (L3) header checksum and TCP, UDP, or ICMP
(L4) checksum in each queue

10G Ethernet Controller
- The TX queues can be mapped into eight traffic classes for scheduling and bandwidth
allocation. Multiple (up to eight) traffic classes are supported, with the following scheduling algorithms. The number of traffic classes and transmit queues can be independently selected so that the number of transmit queues is always greater than or equal to the number of traffic classes.
- Weighted Round Robin (WRR)
- Deficit-Weighted Round Robin (DWRR) (when DCB enabled)
- Weighted Fair Queuing (WFQ) (when DCB enabled)
- Strict Priority (SP)
- Packet level control for
- VLAN tag insertion or replacement
- Ethernet source address insertion
- Checksum insertion
- One-step timestamp correction
- Timestamp control
- CRC and pad control
- When audio-video bridging is enabled, it supports credit-based Shaper scheduling
algorithms in configurations with multiple queues. Forwarding the Transmit status to the application. Useful when time-sensitive networking is enabled using Time-Based Scheduling (TBS).
- Receive Features
- Rx FIFO size from 4 KB to 32 KB for single queue configurations. Up to 192 KB for multiple
queues configurations, with size configurable in powers of 2.
- Programmable size with granularity of 256 bytes per queue
Insertion of Rx status vectors into the Rx queue after the EOP transfer (in Threshold mode) and before SOP (in Store-and-Forward mode) in XGMAC-MTL configuration. In store-and- forward mode, the status is available before the packet data. Therefore, the application can take the packet processing decision even before the packet is read from the queue. This enables multiple-frame storage in the Rx queue without requiring additional memories blocks to store the Rx status of packets. Option to filter all error packets on reception and not forward them to the application in the store-and-forward mode.
- Option to forward the undersized good packets
- Automatic generation of Pause packet control to the MAC based on the Rx queue fill level
with programmable Flow control thresholds in each Rx queue.
- Received packets are mapped into the multiple queues based on the Priority field of the
VLAN tag or on Packet Type (DCB control packet, and so on). Option to select Audio-Video Bridging feature on Rx side only (AVB Listener applications) by un-selecting this feature on Tx side

10G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.8.2.5.4 DMA
The DMA block exchanges the data between the MTL block and the host memory. The host can use a set of registers (DMA CSR) to control the DMA operations. The DMA block supports the following features: 128-bit data transfers Multichannel Transmit and Receive engines (up to 10 Transmit and 10 Receive channels).
- Separate DMA channel in the Transmit path for each queue in MTL. Single or multiple DMA
channels for any number of queues in MTL Receive path Descriptor structure to support the following:
- Byte-aligned addressing for data buffer
Dual-buffer descriptor ring and support for 64-bit addressing in descriptor structure. Expandable descriptor with context descriptor for additional control and status information
- Descriptor architecture to permit large blocks of data transfer with minimum CPU
intervention (each descriptor can transfer up to 8 KB of data).
- TCP Segmentation offload (TSO) and IEEE 1588 timestamps
One-step PTP time correction in Tx, that is, input 64-bit timestamp provided in descriptor. Option to provide 64-bit timestamp for received packets.
- Option to give up to two VLAN tags in descriptor for insertion or replacement in Tx and
stripped VLAN tags in Rx
- Option to split the packet header (Layer 3 and Layer 4) and Layer 4 payload in different
buffers.
- Delivers RSS hash and Out-of-Sequence information for packets received with TCP/UDP
over IP payload
- Individual programmable burst size for Tx DMA and Rx DMA engines for optimal host bus
utilization
- Local memory for storing TSO headers for better performance
- Selectable number of Tx DMA channels with TCP Segmentation offload (TSO) feature
enabled. TSO engine to support TCP over IPv4/IPv6 segmentation
- Routing of received packets to the DMA channels based on RSS hash or the Ethernet DA or
VLAN Priority in multichannel DMA configurations. Register programmable RX buffer sizes for each DMA channel.
- Additional per-DMA channel interrupt for normal packet transfers
Per-packet Transmit and Receive Interrupt control in descriptors.
- Enhanced DMA (EDMA) architecture for better performance and throughput
- Supports prefetching and caching up to 32 descriptors for each DMA channel
- Descriptor fetches, data transfers, and Descriptor writes are de-linked and performed
independently to reduce gaps between data transfers of each DMA.
- TxDMA engines have capability to issue up to 16 outstanding requests for packet/burst
transfer.

10G Ethernet Controller
- DMA descriptor writes can be “posted”, so that next descriptor can be processed
immediately for next packet.
- Option to support L2 Network Virtualization protocol (VXLAN/NVGRE) stateless-offloading
functions are as follows:
- Recognition and processing of either VXLAN or NVGRE (selectable through programming)
based Tunneled packets.
- Checksum offload functions act on both outer UDP/IP header as well as the inner L3-L4
headers.
- TCP Segment offload Engine segments a tunneled packet into multiple segments each
with necessary tunneled packet headers
- Routing of the incoming tunneled packets based on VNI/TNI, FlowID (for NVGRE), Inner DA
and Optionally Inner VLAN Tag Supports Hash based mechanism to select the RxDMA channel for forwarding.
- Option to transfer the complete header (including Tunneling header and Inner Packet
header) and inner payload in to separate buffers.
- Support for processing both Tunneled (VxLAN/NVGRE) packets and Untunneled (normal)
packets simultaneously
- Time-sensitive conditional packet transmission by comparing the Slot Time information
provided in the descriptor (useful for AV applications)
##### 10.8.2.5.5 AXI Interface
- AXI Master Interface
The AXI master interface is compatible to interface with AXI-4 slave ports. It supports the following features: 40-bit address width, little-endian, and byte-invariant big-endian modes
- AXI low-power interface
128-bit data
- OKAY, SLVERR, and DECERR responses from AXI slaves
Software-selected type of AXI burst (fixed and variable length burst) in AXI master interface; option to select address-aligned bursts. AXI 4 KB boundary burst splitting and option to limit burst splitting boundary to 1 KB. Up to 256 outstanding Read and Write transactions with register-programmable control.
- Minimum of 2 outstanding requests per channel in maximum configuration of 10 TxDMA and
10 RxDMA channels One of the outstanding requests is reserved for high priority Descriptor operation.
- Posted writes during multiple data transfers from the AXI master interface to maximize the
bus utilization. AXI-ID based on DMA channel number. Each TX and RX DMA has its own ID for data transfer.

10G Ethernet Controller
- APB Slave Interface
CSR access is provided over 32-bit APB interface.
##### 10.8.2.5.6 Audio Video Support
XGMAC supports the following Audio Video (AV) features:
- Separate channels or queues for AV data transfer
- Up to eight queues on the Receive paths for AV traffic and seven queues on the Transmit
path for AV traffic
- IEEE 802.1-Qav specified credit-based shaper (CBS) algorithm for Transmit channels
- Single Tx FIFO and Rx FIFO (MTL) for all selected queues (system-side interface [AXI, or
native] remains the same).
##### 10.8.2.5.7 Time Sensitive Networking Features
XGMAC supports the following Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) features:
- IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015, Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic
- IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br, Frame preemption, and Interspersing Express Traffic
##### 10.8.2.5.8 Automotive Safety Features
The automotive safety features are targeted to improve the reliability and reduce the time taken to detect faults in the controller. XGMAC supports the following features for automotive safety:
- Error correction code (ECC) protection for memories
- On-chip datapath parity protection
- FSM parity and timeout protection
- Application/CSR interface timeout protection
##### 10.8.2.5.9 Monitoring, Testing and Debug
- Support for internal loopback on the XGMII/GMII for debugging
- DMA states (Tx and Rx) as status bits
- Current Tx or Rx Buffer pointer as status registers
- Current Tx or Rx Descriptor pointer as status registers
- Statistical counters to calculate the bandwidth served by each Transmit channel when DCB
support is enabled.

10G Ethernet Controller
- Provides debug status register that gives the status of FSMs in the Transmit and Receive
datapaths and FIFO fill-levels
- Provides Complete network Ethernet statistics (optional) with RMON-MIB counters (RFCs
2819 and 2665)
#### 10.8.2.6 Physical Coding Sublayer (PCS) Features
- PCS operates in 10G-BASE-R Mode. It provides an interface between MACsec and UPHY (PMA)
through a Media independent interface.
**Figure 10.68 XPCS Top-Level Diagram**

10G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.8.2.6.1 Transmit Block
The features of the transmit block are: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec
- MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox
Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds.
- Performs 64B/66B encoding. In these 66 bits, 64 bits are data bits and 2 bits are Sync
Header bits.
- Performs optional FEC encoding
- Performs scrambling of 64 data bits of PCS data
The data bits are scrambled before they are passed to UPHY as 32 bits @322.265625 MHz. The UPHY serializes this data at 10.3125 Gbps data rate.
##### 10.8.2.6.2 Receive Block
The features of the receive block are: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec
- MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox
- Performs 66-bit block alignment
- Performs optional FEC decoding
- Performs 64B/66B decoding
Carries out BER monitoring and generate pcs_signal_ok status as interface output.
- Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds
- Performs clock compensation between Rx recovered clock and Tx clock
#### 10.8.2.7 UPHY Features
- MGBE is connected to external devices through UPHY module. The connectivity of MGBE
instances to UPHY brick is shown in the following figure.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.69 MGBE Instances to UPHY**}.Body)
