# 10.8.3 10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description

#### 10.8.3.1 Overview
- MGBE is 10G Ethernet Controller that supports 10G over XFI interface and 10G/5G/2.5G over
USXGMII interface. MGBE also supports MACsec based Integrity protection on these interfaces. There are four MGBE instances supporting four lanes of 10G each. The IP is configured with an AXI4 master interface for system memory access and APB4 slave interfaces for Control and Status Registers (CSR) access from host software.
**Figure 10.70 MGBE Overview**
XGMAC DMA controller has 10 receive and 10 transmit channels. The DMA controller reads data from system memory (through the AXI4 master interface) into transmit (Tx) memory buffer. MTL and MAC blocks manage transmission of data from the Tx buffer to the network. Data received on

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description the network is stored into receive (Rx) memory buffer of the controller. Rx DMA controller writes the Rx buffer data to system memory (through the AXI4 master interface). XGMAC micro-architecture provides 1GMAC access to six memory buffers:
- TSO memory: 10 kB (1 kB per channel) of on chip memory to store headers for Transmit
- Segmentation Offload
- Tx Memory: 128 kB of on-chip memory to store transmit packets
- Rx Memory: 192 kB of on-chip memory to store received packets
- EST memory: 2 kB Memory for Descriptor Cache
- Descriptor Cache: 30 kB
- Ethernet data from XGMAC is connected to MACSEC IP, which implements MACSEC ICV generation
and checking in compliance with IEEE802.1AE. Output of the MACSEC IP is connected to the PCS that connects to pads connected to off chip PHY module. 1GMAC has multiple interrupts for various events that can occur in its MAC or in its DMA controller.
- The controller also generates fault signals that will be connected to HSM (Hardware Safety
Manager) block on the chip to report faults in Ethernet Controller logic.
#### 10.8.3.2 MAC Details
The components of the MGBE MAC are explained in the following figure.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.71 MAC Details**
Using CSR, software can configure the XGMAC-CORE to operate at 10/5/2.5G(XGMII) speeds. The
- XGMAC-CORE contains the MAC Transmitter and Receiver functions specified in the IEEE

