# 10.9.1 Overview

Network (CAN) controllers to support connectivity to two CAN networks at the system level, with (SoC) integrates four Controller Area Network (CAN) controllers for automotive applications. These are based on the Bosch Time-triggered Controller Area Network (M_TTCAN) controller. Orin supports connectivity to two CAN networks at the system level, and connectivity to two CAN networks from the Functional Safety Island (FSI), with each CAN controller acting as an independent device.
- The CAN transceivers themselves are external devices, and Orin supports a variety of CAN
transceivers.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
**Figure 10.137 CAN Controller Block Diagram**
In the figure above: M_TT_CAN above is the CAN controller from Bosch (3rd Party IP). APB Slave interface communicates with the back-bone APB bus.
- APB Request De-Multiplexer re-directs the incoming APB request to Configuration and
- Status Register (CSR) block, Bosch IP’s Slave interface or Message RAM. The APB Response
Multiplexer aggregates the responses from various sub-blocks into the APB Response.
- CAN controller has a separate Message RAM to store incoming/outgoing Messages, Tx
Messages timestamp, filters to be applied on incoming Messages. Message RAM size is 4KB.
- The configuration and status registers block provide a register interface for software to
control the auxiliary interfaces provided by CAN core. There are three auxiliary interfaces provided by CAN Core, these interfaces aggregate signals required for Clock calibration unit, Debug Message unit, coupling two Time Triggered networks and other status signals. A Round Robin arbiter arbitrates between Message RAM access requests from the M_TT_CAN Master interface and the APB interface.
- Req Latch is responsible for latching the APB Read/Write requests from the APB interface
towards Message RAM.
- CAN Fault Generation generates the Fault detect signal from CAN. This is derived from the
IR(interrupt register) and TTIR(time triggered interrupt register) buses provided at M_TT_CAN

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
interface. These are a total of 51 status registers. In addition, there are 51 mask bits provided to make a status Fault or non-Fault. There is additional software configurable register which can set this fault even when there is no interrupt. For AON CAN instances, the fault is connected via AON error collator to SCE_HSMand for FSI CAN instances, the fault is connected via FSI error collator to FSI_HSM.
- Timestamp logic provides the external time stamp for CAN controller which is required in
- CAN FD mode. Internal time stamp is not used in CAN FD mode with Bit Rate Switch. 16-bit
port is available from M_TT_CAN to hook-up the external time stamp counter. To support external timestamping, CAN gets an input TSC in the AON and FSI clusters, respectively.and
- FSI
**Figure 10.138 M_TT_CAN Controller Block Diagram**
#### 10.9.1.1 Revision
Orin implements Version 3.2.3 of the Bosch M_TTCAN Controller.

- Controller Area Network (CAN)
#### 10.9.1.2 References
- Bosch M_
FSI_XTAL clock operates at 40 MHz.
- User’s Manual, available from Bosch’s website: (http://www.bosch-semiconductors.de)
Note: Links to Bosch’s website change over time, at the time of writing a Google search for “Bosch CAN IP modules” will find a page with links to all the available M_TTCAN documentation as the first result.
- CAN 2.0 Specification
- CAN FD Specification
#### 10.9.1.3 Hardware Features
- Compliant with ISO 11898 and tested according to ISO/DIS 16845 (CAN conformance test)
- Includes ISO 11898-4, time triggered communication
- Includes ISO/CD 11898-1 CAN FD Frame formats
- Two Independent CAN ports/channels
- Standard frame and extended frame transmission/reception enable
- CAN controller instances within AON cluster can support serial communication data transfer
up-to 15 Mbps. CAN controller instances within FSI cluster can support serial communication data transfer up-to 10 Mbps. 0 – 8 byte data length, with the ability to receive the first 8 bytes when Data length coding is > 8 Bytes 32 message buffers per channel
- Prioritization of transmit buffers
- Receive/transmit history list function
- Automatic block transmission function
- Multi-buffer receive block function
Flexible maskable identifier filter supports of two 32-bit, or four 16-bit, or eight 8-bit filters for each channel
- Programmable data bit time, communication baud rate, and sample point
- As an example, the following sample-point configurations can be configured: 66.7%, 70.0%,

