# 102 MHz

- MGBE_MAC_PCLK
- APB Clock for XGMAC and Wrapper logic register access
- MGBE_MACSEC_PCLK
- APB Clock for MACSEC
- MGBE_PCS_PCLK
- APB Clock for PCS
- MGBE_PTP_REF_CLK
- Reference clock for capturing the timestamp
- TSC_REF_LS_CLK
- TSC Clock used to capture TSC timestamp
##### 10.8.3.9.2 Resets
The resets present in an MGBE controller are as follows.
- Table 10.65 MGBE Resets
- Reset Name
- Type
- MGBE_PCS_RST_N
- Asynchronous reset
- MGBE_MAC_RESET_N
- Asynchronous reset
- MGBE_MACSEC_RST_N
- Asynchronous reset
- MGBE_MACSEC_SECURE_RESET_N
- Asynchronous reset
The MGBE Reset related fields are:
- SWR_MGBE<i>_PCS_RST
- SWR_MGBE<i>_MAC_RST

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- SWR_MGBE<i>_MACSEC_RST
- SWR_MGBE<i>_MACSEC_SECURE_RST
where i={0,1,2,3} is the MGBE instance number.
#### 10.8.3.10 Power Management
##### 10.8.3.10.1 Clock Gating
First Level Clock Gating: The below are the list of 1st level clock gates that can be enabled.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE<i>_TX_CLK_ENABLE
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE<i>_TX_PCS_CLK_ENABLE
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE<i>_MAC_CLK_ENABLE
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE<i>_MACSEC_CLK_ENABLE
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE<i>_PTP_REF_CLK_ENABLE
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE<i>_EEE_PCS_CLK_ENABLE
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE<i>_APP_CLK_ENABLE
where i={0,1,2,3} is the MGBE instance number. Second Level Clock Gating: The MGBE module support EEE (Energy Efficient Ethernet) feature. When MGBE is configured for EEE mode, the clocks to the following modules can be clock gated till any activity is detected on the wire. PCS removes clock gating for Rx and MAC for Tx.
- XGMAC
- MACsec
- PCS
Software needs to program the following overrides to “0” for power savings (disable free-running clocks). Default value is “1” (free-running clocks ON).
- MGBE_WRAP_CLOCK_CTRL_0 à “0” to disable free-running clocks in XGMAC for AXI, RX, and
- TX clocks
- PCS_WRAP_CLOCK_CNTL_0 à “0” to disable free-running clocks in UPHY, XGMII, and PCS for
TX/RX direction.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
##### 10.8.3.10.2 Power Gating
The four MGBEs of this SoC are mapped to four partition domains as shown in the following table. Each module can be power gated independently. The “mgbea” partition is the kitchen sink. That is, it contains the logic, which is common to all mgbe instances. (Ex: grout logic)
- Table 10.66 MGBE Power Domains
- MGBE RTL Instance
- Name
- Partition (Power Domain)
- Chiplet
- MGBE UPHY Lane
- Mapping
mgbe0 mgbeba
- NV_toa_mgbeuphy_mgbe
- Lane4
mgbe1 mgbebb
- NV_toa_mgbeuphy_mgbe
- Lane5
mgbe2 mgbebc
- NV_toa_mgbeuphy_mgbe
- Lane6
mgbe3 (kitchen sink) mgbea (kitchen sink logic)
- NV_toa_mgbeuphy_mgbe
- Lane7
Order of Power Gating: mgbe3(kitchen sink) can be power gated only when all the remaining mgbe instances are power gated. Order of Power Ungating: mgbe3 (kitchen sink) should be power ungated first before ungating any other mgbe instance. The relevant MGBE-related registers to be used while implementing the above-mentioned power gating/ungating sequence are: The registers mentioned in the "Clock Gating" section control clocks enabling and disabling. To flush the memory transactions in the pipeline, set the following FLUSH_ENABLE bits.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_2_0. MGBE0_FLUSH_ENABLE (in
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_MCB_BASE aperture)
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0. MGBE1_FLUSH_ENABLE (in
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_MCB_BASE aperture)
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0. MGBE2_FLUSH_ENABLE (in
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_MCB_BASE aperture)
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_3_0. MGBE3_FLUSH_ENABLE (in
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_MCB_BASE aperture)
Poll the following status bits to check the status of the flush operation. (1 -> FLUSH_DONE).
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_2_0. MGBE0_HOTRESET_STATUS
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0. MGBE1_HOTRESET_STATUS
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0. MGBE2_HOTRESET_STATUS

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_3_0. MGBE3_HOTRESET_STATUS
Fence the CBB interface with the below PWRDWN REQ, ACK registers in PMC.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEA_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBA_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBB_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBC_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEA_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBA_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBB_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBC_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0
Clamp assertion and de-assertion are controlled by the following PMC registers.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEA_CLAMP_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBA_CLAMP_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBB_CLAMP_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0
- Unit resets can be asserted/de-asserted using the registers mentioned in the
"Resets" section. The following PMC Registers control the power state of the MGBE domains:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0
- PMC_IMPL_PART_MGBEBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0
##### 10.8.3.10.3 Energy-Efficient Ethernet (EEE)
The Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE) is an operational mode that enables the IEEE 802.3 Media Access Control (MAC) sublayer along with a family of Physical layers to operate in the Low-Power Idle (LPI) mode. The EEE operational mode supports the IEEE 802.3 MAC operation at 10 Gbps, 5
- Gbps, and 2.5 Gbps. The LPI mode allows power saving by switching off the parts of the
communication device functionality when there is no data to be transmitted and received. The systems on both sides of the link can disable some functionality and save power during low link- utilization period. The MAC controls whether the system should enter or exit the LPI mode and communicates this to the PHY. The EEE specifies the capabilities negotiation methods that the link partners can use to determine whether EEE is supported and then select the best set of parameters common to both devices.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Transmit Path Functions
- In the transmit path, the software must set the LPITXEN bit of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status
register to indicate to the MAC to stop the transmission and initiate the LPI protocol. The MAC completes the transmission in progress and generates its transmission status. The MAC starts transmitting the LPI pattern instead of the IDLE pattern if the link status has been UP continuously for a period specified in the LPI LS TIMER field of MAC_LPI_Timers_Control register. The PHY Link Status bit of the LPI Control and Status Register indicates the link status of the PHY. To make the PHY enter the LPI state, the MAC performs the tasks described in the table below:
- Table 10.67 Transmit Path Functions For XGMII Interfaces
- XGMII Interface
1. Drives XGMII_TXC[7:0] or [3:0] to 4'b1111. XGMII_TXC[7:0] is for the DDW mode; XGMII_TXC[3:0] is for the DDR/SDR mode. Drives XGMII_TXD[63:0] or [31:0] to 32'h06060606.
- XGMII_TXD[63:0] is for the DDW mode;
XGMII_TXD[31:0] is for the DDR/SDR mode. Updates the LPI entry status in the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register and generates the sbd_intr_o interrupt if the LPIIE bit of the MAC_Interrupt_Enable register is set to 1. 2. 3. Note: The MAC maintains the same state for the specified signals while it remains in the LPI state. To bring the PHY out of the LPI state, that is, when the software resets the LPITXEN bit, the MAC performs the following tasks: 1. 2. Stops transmitting the LPI pattern and starts transmitting the IDLE pattern.
- Starts the LPI TW TIMER. The MAC cannot start the normal frame transmission until the
wake-up time specified for the PHY expires. The auto-negotiated wake-up interval is programmed in bits [15:0] (TWT) of MAC_LPI_Timers_Control register.
- Updates the LPI exit status of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register and generates the
sbd_intr_o interrupt if the LPIIE bit of the MAC_Interrupt_Enable register is set to 1. 3.
- Note: In the DDR or DDW mode, when the MAC is coming out of the LPI mode, it internally
generates reset for the XGMII transmit interface. This takes care of differences in the inter-clock arrival latency. In addition, it aligns the internal read or write pointers offsets after the Tx clock gating is removed. The following figure shows the behavior of the TX_EN, TX_ER, and TXD[7:0] signals during the LPI mode transitions.
- Note: When the MAC drives the LPI pattern, it does not internally generate the PLS_CARRIER
indication (required by the Energy Efficient Ethernet standard) to defer normal transmission. The internal logic of the MAC ensures that it does not transmit normal frame when it is driving the LPI pattern and also during the subsequent LPI TW time. The following figure shows the behavior of the XGMII_TXD[31:0] and XGMII_TXC[3:0] signals during the LPI mode transitions.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.121 LPI Transitions for XGMII (Transmit)**
- Note: The DWC_xgmac does not stop the TX_CLK clock. You can stop this clock if your PHY
supports it and the XGMAC-CORE sets the sbd_tx-_clk_gating_ctrl_o signal to 1.
- Programming Bit[21] of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register controls the assertion of this
clock-gating signal.
- In the XGMAC-CORE configuration, when the TX clock gating is done during the LPI mode,
you cannot use the LPITXA bit of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register as the XGMAC-CORE cannot detect exit condition with the Tx clock. If the MAC is in Tx LPI mode and the Tx clock is stopped, the application should not write to CSR registers that are synchronized to Tx clock domain.
- Automated Entry/Exit of LPI mode in Tx Path
The MAC transmitter can be programmed to enter and exit LPI IDLE mode automatically based on whether it is IDLE for a specific period of time or has a packet to transfer. These modes are enabled and controlled by MAC_LPI_Control_Status register. When LPITXA (Bit[19]) and LPITXEN (Bit[16]) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register are set, the MAC transmitter enters LPI IDLE state when the MAC transmit path (including the MTL layers and DMA layers) is idle. The MAC transmitter exits the LPI IDLE state and clears the LPITXEN bit as soon as any of functions in the TX path (DMA, MTL, or MAC) becomes nonidle due to initiation of a packet transfer. In addition, when Bit[20] (LPIATE) is also set, the MAC transmitter enters LPI IDLE state only if the Transmit path remains in idle state (no activity) for the time period indicated by the value in MAC_LPI_Auto_Entry_Timer. In this mode also, the MAC transmitter exits the LPI IDLE state as soon as any of the functions becomes nonidle. However, the LPITXEN bit is not cleared but remains active so that reentry to LPI IDLE state is possible without any software intervention when the MAC becomes idle again. When both LPIATE and LPITXA bits are clear, the entry and exit of LPI IDLE state is directly controlled by the software by programming the LPITXEN bit.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Receive Path Functions
When the PHY receives the signals from the link partner to enter the LPI state, the PHY and MAC perform the tasks mentioned in this table:
**Figure 10.122 Receive Path Functions for XGMII Interfaces**
- XGMII Interface
1. The PHY drives XGMII_RXC[7:0] or [3:0] to 4'b1111. XGMII_RXC[7:0] is for the DDW mode; XGMII_RXC[3:0] is for the DDR/SDR mode. The PHY drives XGMII_RXD[63:0] or [31:0] to 32'h06060606. XGMII_RXD[63:0] is for the DDW mode; XGMII_RXD[31:0] is for the DDR/SDR mode. The MAC updates the RLPIEN bit of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register and generates the sbd_intr_o interrupt if the LPIIE bit of the MAC_Interrupt_Enable register. is set to 1. 2. 3. Note: The PHY maintains the specified signals while it remains in the LPI state. When the PHY receives the signals from the link partner to exit the LPI state, the PHY and MAC perform the following tasks: 1. 2. 3. 4. The PHY de-asserts RX_ER. The PHY sets the RXD[7:0] in XGMII_RXD[31:0] to 32'h07070707 for XGMII. The PHY returns to a normal interframe state.
- The MAC updates the RLPIEX bit of the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register and generates the
sbd_intr_o interrupt if the LPIIE bit of the MAC_Interrupt_Enable register is set to 1. The MAC also generates the sbd_intr_o interrupt on the additional sideband signal synchronized to Rx clock (lpi_intr_o).
- Note: In the DDR or DDW mode, when the MAC is coming out of the Rx LPI mode, it internally
generates reset for the XGMII transmit interface. This takes care of differences in the inter-clock arrival latency. In addition, it aligns the internal read or write pointers offsets after the Rx clock gating is removed. The figure below shows the behavior of XGMII_RXD[31:0] and XGMII_RXC[3:0] signals during the LPI mode transitions.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.123 LPI Transitions for XGMII (Receive)**
Notes:
- If the RX_CLK_stoppable bit (in PHY register written through MDIO) is asserted when the
- PHY is indicating LPI to the MAC, then the PHY may halt the RX_CLK at any time more than

