## 10.17 Fan Tachometer
### 10.17.1 Overview
tachometer input controller and PWM output controller. This chapter documents the tachometer input controller module. The main purpose of the fan tachometer input controller is to find the RPM of the fan, which enables control of the fan speed. The tachometer input controller monitors the period and high time of the fan tachometer input. The tachometer solution is based on a four-wire fan: two wires for the power (V+, GND), one wire for the PWM input for fan speed control (this is an output of the chip), and one wire for the tachometer output for monitoring the revolutions per minute (RPM) (this is an input to chip).

Fan Tachometer The tachometer input controller is in the LSIO cluster and the PWM output controller (which controls the fan speed) is in the AO block. The PWM controller fan must be in AO to allow a battery- powered device to be charged while in SC7 (also known as deep sleep). If the fan is not active in SC7, the device could get too warm during charging in some implementations. The fan control is active only when the fan is driven by PWM_OUT. The temperature input functions as a wake event. If the temperature goes beyond/below maximum/minimum thresholds, the system exits from SC7, and the PWM output controller adjusts the fan speed according to the input from temperature versus RPM curve. The fan is not monitored through the tachometer but is controlled through PWM during SC7. The tachometer input controller register logic interfaces with the APB bus. Additional instance of TACH is added for redundancy during functional state and not in low power states. The figure below shows the placement of hardware modules:
**Figure 10.162 Block Diagram of PWM and Tachometer**

Fan Tachometer
### 10.17.2 Functional Description
#### 10.17.2.1 Fan Tachometer Clocks
The oscillator clock (38.4 MHz) serves as a clock source for the tachometer input controller. The 1- MHz clock is derived from the crystal, and is used as a tachometer counter clock. This 1-MHz clock divider is external to the tachometer module. The input to tachometer is the 1-MHz clock itself. The 1-MHz clock would actually be 38.4/38 or 19.2/19 which is 1.0105263 MHz. Software has to use this clock value in the RPM calculations. The PLLP, which is another clock source to the tachometer, cannot be used to derive the 1-MHz clock because of the 8-bit divider. The minimum input clock frequency is 3.18 MHz (408 MHz/2^7 MHz) when PLLP is used as a clock source. The clock value used in the RPM calculations should be adjusted accordingly. As the tachometer input frequency range is 1-400 Hz, and the tolerable precision for the tachometer is < 0.1%, the minimum sampling clock should have frequency > 400 kHz. 1 MHz is chosen to get 1 μs time base for the counter for easy calculations. Operation is at a fixed frequency.
##### 10.17.2.1.1 Fan Tachometer Input Controller
The figure below explains the tachometer input controller in detail.
**Figure 10.163 High-Level View of Tachometer Input Controller**
A 1-MHz counter is implemented in the period and HI counter logic which provides one microsecond time base. This counter increments for the duration of the window length of the tachometer input. If the counter overflows, it is indicated by the overflow bit. When the window length ends, the last counter value is latched into the software-accessible register. The glitch filter in the GPIO unit is disabled here. The filter logic is programmable with a range of [1 ms to 128 ms] in steps of 1 ms. If this is programmed with X ms, it filters out glitches of width less than X+1 ms. The tachometer input frequency range would be 1-400 Hz. So the minimum time period is 1/400 =
