## 9.9 In-System Test Controller (IST)
### 9.9.1 Overview
hardware, software, or a combination of both) to detect permanent hardware faults. IST leverages the Design For Test (DFT) structures that are built into the SoC for manufacturing testing, in order to run both the Logic Built-In-Self-Test (LBIST) and Memory Built-In-Self-Test (MBIST) on the chip within a production system. IST testing changes most of the state on the chip, so can not be used while the system is running. It is normally run prior to power off (key off), but can be run at power on (key on). An attached eMMC flash is used for storing various IST related data. Some platforms pair the SoC with a discrete GPU (dGPU), and to support fault coverage requirements on such platforms, the IST solution includes a software based option to master the IST execution on an appropriately attached (and appropriately capable) dGPU. The SoC IST is normally expected to take less than five seconds.
#### 9.9.1.1 Features
Software readies the SoC (and the dGPU) and then triggers IST execution.

In-System Test Controller (IST) Software trains and calibrates the SDMMC interface prior to triggering IST execution. IST Controller controls the LBIST/MBIST sequence end-to-end. IST Controller has direct point-to-point interface to the SDMMC controller for streaming the configuration and seed data from the SDMMC flash device. IST Controller reads configuration data and seed data from SDMMC IST Controller Microcode is loaded by trusted boot software into an SRAM in the IST controller. That same software locks the RAM against subsequent writes. dGPU IST Controller Microcode is loaded from dGPU flash (VBIOS). IST controller in dGPU fetches test data from SDRAM over PCIe and executes IST on dGPU.
#### 9.9.1.2 Impacted Domains and IPs
Support for IST has an impact on a number of IP(s) within the SoC, as well as software and firmware components. IST Controller: The IST controller (the IST controller) builds upon the existing DFT master: IST controller is a slave to Control BackBone (CBB) Fabric. IST controller has a dedicated point-to-point interface to the SDMMC4 controller. IST controller is responsible for reading of test vectors from eMMC flash storage. IST controller is responsible for sequencing the configuration and seed data into BIST controllers on the SoC. - - - - eMMC/UFS/NVMe flash storage: eMMC flash is used for storing various IST related data including Test Vectors and certain configuration data. The SDMMC4 controller supports a direct slave interface to DFT Master. The SDMMC4 controller is "isolated" from the rest of the SoC logic such that is kept out of the MBIST and LBIST scan sequence and kept functional throughout the sequence. dGPU test data can be stored in UFS or NVME in addition to eMMC. Control Back Bone (CBB): IST is a slave to CBB PCIe Link to dGPU: PCIe link (in Gen3) mode is used to fetch the test data patterns from the SoC SDRAM to the dGPU. System Software: Software is responsible for configuring the SoC (and the attached dGPU) to a well-defined state prior to triggering IST execution. Configuration requirements exist for clocks, IO state, power-gating regions, power-rails states and voltages, PCIe controller, SDMMC controller, and the IST controller. - Additionally, software must configure platform hardware, including the supervisor MCU and the on-board thermal monitors.

In-System Test Controller (IST) Details of the software sequencing requirements are found in IST software sequences.
#### 9.9.1.3 Platform Level View
At the platform level, IST treats platform (i.e., board) level components as black boxes. It describes those components, their interconnections, and the behaviors that they implement relevant to IST. IST functionality depends on a platform's storage media being properly flashed with necessary IST code and data. Note that this document does not describe the code and data, where the code and data should reside on the platform, or the procedures for gathering and flashing that code and data on the platform.
##### 9.9.1.3.1 Platform Elements
Orin - the platform implementing IST includes one or more SoCs. eMMC - the platform providing an eMMC storage device for each SoC participating in IST. The eMMC stores IST-related data for both the SoC and any appropriately attached dGPU. dGPU test data can also be stored in UFS or NVMe flash storage. For Orin, 3 to 6 GB is normally required. For dGPU 8 GB is normally required. Per IST run, around 300 KB of results data is written to the eMMC device. An attached dGPU requires additional eMMC storage to support IST. Details on the amount of additional storage can be found in the supporting documentation for the dGPU. PMIC - the platform supporting IST includes a PMIC (or some other element) that provides power sequencing functionality. MCU - the platform supporting IST includes an external supervisory MCU (or some other element) which provides a watchdog timer for IST execution. dGPU - the platform may connect a single dGPU to each SoC participating in IST. Software executed on the SoC can trigger IST on dGPU.
##### 9.9.1.3.2 Platform Configurations
The following represents a description of the platform configurations that support IST and the platform requirements to enable IST. IST is supported for the following configurations only: Single or multi-SoC only (i.e., no dGPU) configurations. Multi-SoC + multi-dGPU configurations that have a 1:1 ratio of between the SoC and dGPU dies. For systems that have more dGPU chips than SoC chips, the remaining dGPU chips that don't have a chip to pair with, are not covered by IST.

In-System Test Controller (IST) If an active PCIe switch is used to connect SoC chips and dGPU chips, the switch is not covered by IST.
##### 9.9.1.3.3 System Block Diagram
The following diagram depicts the main data paths and units involved in the IST sequence. It illustrates the data paths and units involved in the LBIST sequence.
**Figure 9.74 IST Datapath Diagram**
There is an independent IST controller complex on both the SoC and dGPU. The IST controller is responsible for reading the patterns from the EMMC storage, routing them to the LBIST/MBIST masters of the various physical partitions on the SoC. It is also responsible for logging status in EMMC storage at various critical check points in the IST sequence. Lastly, the IST controller is responsible for receiving thermal events, interacting with PMIC to handle thermal events, as well as the final shutdown at the end of the IST sequence. The IST controller on the dGPU side has similar responsibilities, except interaction with the EMMC storage and PMIC.
#### 9.9.1.4 Software Components
IST explicitly assigns various requirements to a handful of specific software components. Other requirements placed upon software may be handled by different software components in different platforms.

In-System Test Controller (IST) BPMP-IST is a standalone application which handles much of Orin's "prepare for IST" work. It runs on the BPMP. IST Controller Microcode MB1 is an early stage bootloader for Orin. It runs on the BPMP-R5. CPU microcode is firmware which runs in the CCPLEX. SC7 Resume Firmware runs as part of SC7 Exit. It runs on the BPMP.
##### 9.9.1.4.1 Data Objects
Test Vectors The Test Vectors specify tests sufficiently for the IST controller to run them. The test vectors are encoded as a sequence of packets. The packet formats are defined in the IST Controller section. The packet associated with running a particular test also tells the IST controller where to write the associated test results. Result Set As the IST controller executes the tests specified by the Test Vectors, it writes the results back to eMMC. The set of values that it writes constitute the IST Result Set. Result Key The Test Vectors specify not just how to run a set of tests, but also where to store the results from each test. As the test vectors change, the location and interpretation of the results change as well. Therefore, along with each test vector, the DFT team provides an IST Result Key that gets stored in eMMC alongside the test vectors. Results Processing Library The Results Processing Library parses the IST Result Set according to the IST Result Key. It's important that this exists as a standalone library so that it can be used by IST results checking software. Also, this document does not specify the processor on which the IST Results Processing Library runs.
##### 9.9.1.4.2 CPU Online IST
CPU Online In-System-Test (IST) refers to executing structural scan tests in the field during mission mode for platforms that may require functional safety in the CPU complex. Online IST enables testing of the Single Point Faults and Latent Faults within the Fault Tolerant Time Interval (FTTI). Online IST is targeted only for the CCPLEX CPU cores in non-lock-step clusters in Orin. It may not be available on all configurations of Orin, refer to the datasheet for specific capabilities.

In-System Test Controller (IST) The SoC CCPLEX has a total of up to twelve CPU cores grouped into up to three clusters (four cores or two core-pairs per cluster). During mission mode, ARM software can bring down one core per cluster and perform online IST on that core, while rest of the cores in the cluster are functional. Online IST can be scheduled in parallel across all three clusters, so total of three cores (one core per cluster) out of twelve can undergo test simultaneously.
**Figure 9.75 Online IST Scope**
The the CPU core and CPU bridge logic will be tested as part of this IST operation. Online IST will target DC faults for logic using the stuck-at fault model, and AC faults for logic using the transition-delay fault model. Memories are not tested as part of Online IST because they have ECC/ Parity mechanisms to detect faults in mission mode. Memories will be put in sleep mode during Online IST to save power. The Online IST test data for the SoC are stored off chip in a flash memory on the platform. The test data must be moved from flash to DRAM IST GSC carveout (GSC#31) before Online IST can be scheduled on any core. CPU Online IST will not be run on disabled or power-gated clusters.
##### 9.9.1.4.3 CPU Flop-Clear
The SoC supports lock-step operation between cores within a cluster in CCPLEX. To allow deterministic entry into lock-step operation, it is necessary to ensure that the pair of CPUs are initialized to identical states prior to the removal of reset. CPU Flop-Clear uses the In-System-Test (IST) logic to scan in known values (0 or 1) into all the flops prior to de-asserting functional reset. The goal of this unit is to initialize all the scannable flops in the CPU core and the bridge on CPU clock within a core-pair. Exception: Memory elements within the CPU are not expected to be initialized.

IST Registers Exception: Flops that are Non-Scan, and also Non-resettable, are not expected to be initialized. Scan load initialized flops can be either 0 or 1 at the end of the Flop-Clear Sequence. Exception: Non-resettable Scan Flops are initialized to either 0 or 1. Resettable Flops are initialized to their corresponding reset values upon switching to functional reset at the end of the Flop-Clear Sequence. The flop initialization is done as part of the following scenarios: Cold Boot SC7 Exit Power-Gating exit events
### 9.9.2 IST Registers
IST_IST_TRIGGER_0 Software needs to program PRE_IST_MODE bit to 1 to trigger IST COMMAND_ARGUMENT. 00 to 111 transition indicates to start IST. Offset: 0x0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00) Bit Reset Description 1:0 0x0 PRE_IST_MODE IST_EMMC_START_ADDRESS_0 Starting address of the test data in eMMC. Software needs to program this register before triggering PRE_IST_MODE Offset: 0x4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 START_ADDRESS

IST Registers IST_EMMC_START_ADDRESS_MSB_0 Offset: 0x8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 START_ADDRESS IST_DGPU_IST_0 Indicates if IST is enabled in dGPU by Software. Offset: 0xc Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 DGPU_IST_enabled IST_EMMC_CARD_SETTINGS_0 0: for regular IST. 1: indicates IST eMMC controller selects the option to bypass eMMC device's internal cache and write the data directly to non-volatile memory Offset: 0x10 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)

IST Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 force_prgm: When this bit is 1, we will select the option to bypass the eMMC device internal cache and write the data directly to the non-volatile memory. This results in very slow write bandwidth so it should not be the default option. When this bit is 0 (default option), the data being written to the card will be written to the device internal cache and the device will periodically (and during shutdown sequence) save all the cache data to non-volatile memory. This is the recommended option to get fast write bandwidth. IST_INTERRUPT_MASK_ALWAYS_0_0 Interrupts can be masked/ignored using this registers by programming the corresponding mask to 1. Offset: 0x14 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 MASK_0 By default none of the interrupts are masked. [0] Card_error [1] emmc read mismatch [2] emmc write-read mismatch [3] emmc ctrl timeout [4] seq_spare_0 [5] seq_spare_1 [6] ft1_spare_0 [7] ft1_spare_1 [8] Ft1_spare_2 [9] Ft1_spare_3 [10] Ft1_spare_4 [11] Ft1_spare_5 [12] Ft1_spare_6 [13] Ft1_spare_7 [14] Ft1_spare_8 [15] Ft1_spare_9 [16] tegra_thermal_alert [17] Cr1_platform2ist_spare_0 [18] Cr1_platform2ist_spare_1 [19] Cr1_platform2ist_ spare_2 [20] jtgctrl_clstrid_IR_mismatch [21] Sku_mismatch [22] seq_out_of_order_exec [23] seq_ram_pkt_type_mismatch [24] jtgctrl_invalid_rd_during_wr_seq [25] jtgctrl_invalid_rd_after_rd [26] jtagctrl_emmc_prgm_fields [27] jtagctrl_timeout [28] Cr1_spare_1 [29] Cr1_spare_2 [30] Cr1_spare_3 [31] Cr1_spare_4

IST Registers IST_PLATFORM_INTR_INV_0 Interrupts can be masked/ignored using this registers by programming the corresponding mask to 1. Offset: 0x18 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000) Bit Reset Description 5:0 0x0 VAL By default none of the interrupts are masked [0] dgpu_thermal_alert [1] Cr2_platform2ist_spare_0 [2] pcie_link_not_established [3] pcie_link_error [4] Link_ctrl_timeout [5] Cr2_Seq_spare_0 [6] Cr2_Seq_spare_1 [7] Cr2_ spare_0 [8] Cr2_spare_1 [9] Cr2_spare_2 [10] Cr2_spare_3 [11] Cr2_spare_4 [12] Cr2_spare_5 [13] Cr2_spare_6 [14] Cr2_spare_7 [15] Cr2_spare_8 [16] Lbisttop_timeout_ctrl [17] Lbist2seq_seed_invalid [18] Lbist2seq_results_invalid [19] Lbist2seq_interrupt_spare_0 [20] Lbist2seq_spare_1 [21] Nc2_Seq_spare_0 [22] Nc2_Seq_spare_1 [23] Nc2_spare_0 [24] Nc2_spare_1 [25] Nc2_spare_2 [26] Nc2_spare_3 [27] Nc2_spare_4 [28] Nc2_spare_5 [29] Nc2_spare_6 [30] Nc2_spare_7 [31] Nc2_spare_8 IST_INTERRUPT_MASK_COND_0_0 Interrupts can be masked/ignored using this registers by programming the corresponding mask to 1.

IST Registers Offset: 0x1c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x0 MASK_2 By default none of the interrupts are masked [0] Cr1_spare_5 [1] Cr1_spare_6 [2] Cr1_spare_7 [3] Cr1_spare_8 [4] Cr1_spare_9 [5] Cr1_spare_10 [6] Cr1_spare_11 [7] Cr1_spare_12 [8] Cr1_spare_13 [9] Cr1_spare_14 [10] Cr1_spare_15 [11] Cr1_spare_16 [12] Cr1_spare_17 [13] Cr1_spare_18 [14] Cr1_spare_19 [15] Cr1_spare_20 IST_GLOBAL_SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT_0 Global shutdown counter. IF IST is hung for any reason, shutdown counter will trip and Sequencer triggers shutdown Default value is 1 min. counter is running at RTC_CLK which is 32-kHz for 180sec, it takes 5760000 cycles whose hex value is 0x57E400 Offset: 0x20 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x0057e400 (0b0000,0000,0101,0111,1110,0100,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x57e400 COUNTER_VAL IST_JTAGCTRL_TIMEOUT_0 This is for the timeout with respect to JTAG interface. This counter is used for both directions: sending and receiving data from JTAG controller. Counter is running at IST_CLK which is 200-MHz for 100msec, it takes 20000000 cycles whose hex value is 0x1312D00

IST Registers Offset: 0x24 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x01312d00 (0b0000,0001,0011,0001,0010,1101,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x1312d00 COUNTER_VAL IST_EMMCCTRL_TIMEOUT_0 This is for the timeout with respect to eMMC interface. This counter is used for both directions: sending and receiving data from eMMC controller. Counter is running at IST_CLK which is 200-MHz for 100msec, it takes 20000000 cycles whose hex value is 0x1312D00 Offset: 0x28 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x01312d00 (0b0000,0001,0011,0001,0010,1101,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x1312d00 COUNTER_VAL IST_LBISTTOP_TIMEOUT_0 This is for the timeout with respect to LBIST interface. This counter is used for both directions: sending and receiving data from LBIST_TOP controller. Counter is running at IST_CLK which is 200- MHz for 100msec, it takes 20000000 cycles whose hex value is 0x1312D00 Offset: 0x2c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x01312d00 (0b0000,0001,0011,0001,0010,1101,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x1312d00 COUNTER_VAL IST_DGPULINK_TRAIN_TIMEOUT_0

IST Registers This is for the timeout with respect to link controller interface. This counter is used for link training. Counter is running at IST_CLK which is 200-MHz for 510msec, it takes 20000000 cycles whose hex value is 0x6146580 Offset: 0x30 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x06146580 (0b0000,0110,0001,0100,0110,0101,1000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x6146580 COUNTER_VAL IST_DGPULINK_POSTTRAIN_TIMEOUT_0 This is for the timeout with respect to link controller interface. This counter is used for both directions: sending and receiving data from LINK controller. Counter is running at IST_CLK which is 200-MHz for 100msec, it takes 20000000 cycles whose hex value is 0x1312D00 Offset: 0x34 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x01312d00 (0b0000,0001,0011,0001,0010,1101,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x1312d00 COUNTER_VAL IST_DEBUG_CAPTURE_0 Capture for debug Offset: 0x38 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 emmc_wr_read_success

IST Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 emmc_exp_patt_rd_success 0x0 IST_MODE IST_LINK_CONTROLS_0 Link controller controls Offset: 0x3c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 ist_link_ctrl_sel IST_RAM_CTRL_START_DWORD_0 It is used for both writing and reading from RAM. Indicates from which DWORD, RAM loading starts. Offset: 0x40 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 start_dword_no IST_RAM_CTRL_NO_DWORDS_0 Indicates how many DWORDs are accessed. This is also valid for both write and read from RAM Offset: 0x44 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

IST Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 no_of_dwords IST_RAM_CTRL_EN_0 Control register for RAM write, read. Offset: 0x48 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 write_lock 0x0 read_enable 0x0 write_enable IST_RAM_LOAD_DATA_0 RAM write data. Offset: 0x4c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 write_val IST_RAM_READ_DATA_0 RAM read data.

IST Registers Offset: 0x50 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 read_val IST_RAM_STATUS_0 RAM status register bit 0 - Write_done: goes high when the intended number of bytes are written. bit 1 - Read_done: goes high when the intended number of bytes are read. bit 2 - Write_read_overflow: indicates Software is trying to write/read more than requested. It will get asserted irrespective of state of write_lock bit. These bits are cleared when the next read/write RAM_CTRL_NO_DWORDS is programmed. Offset: 0x54 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 write_read_overflow 0x0 read_done 0x0 write_done IST_RAM_TARGET_DWORD_0 This corresponds to the DWORD number which will be accessed next so that Software can read it for reference Offset: 0x58 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

IST Registers Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 dword_no IST_LINK_SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT_0 This is to wait for link controller to go into disable state before issuing dGPU shutdown counter is running at IST_CLK which is 200-MHz for 30µs, it takes 6000 cycles whose hex value is 0x1770 Offset: 0x5c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00001770 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0001,0111,0111,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x1770 COUNTER_VAL IST_GPU_CLK_SHUTDOWN_TIMEOUT_0 Time-out delay to wait for the clock to the reset pad to be gated, before issuing dGPU reset. The shutdown counter is running at IST_CLK which is 200-MHz for 30µs, it takes 6000 cycles whose hex value is 0x1770 Offset: 0x60 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00001770 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0001,0111,0111,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x1770 COUNTER_VAL IST_ALLOW_EMMC_DATA_0 Feature to allow eMMC data access Offset: 0x64 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N

IST Registers Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 enable IST_RAND_LFSR_0 To enable the random mode LFSR Offset: 0x68 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 rand_lfsr_enable IST_SEED_LFSR_0 Seed for random mode LFSR Offset: 0x6c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00006f41 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0110,1111,0100,0001) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x6f41 seed_val IST_GLOBAL_SHUTDOWN_COUNTER_0 ENABLE = 1: enables shut down once counter reaches to 0. ENABLE = 0: do not shut down (tip) even though global shutdown counter reached to 0. TRIGGER = 1: trigger (enable) global shut down COUNTER (down counter).

IST Registers Offset: 0x70 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00) Bit Reset Description 0x0 trigger 0x0 enable IST_MODE_DELAY_0 ist_mode_delay value. By default its 50 cycles (of IST_CLK). Offset: 0x74 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000032 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0011,0010) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x32 counter_val IST_ABSOLUTE_ADDRESS_0 ist_mode_delay value. By default its 50 cycles (of IST_CLK). Offset: 0x78 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 enable IST_EMMC_CTRLR_CONFIG_0 emmc_apb_control value. By default its 0.

IST Registers Offset: 0x7c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 emmc_apb_control IST_NONEXISTENT_CHIPLET_ID_0 Non-Existent Chiplet ID to be sent to LBIST Top Offset: 0x80 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 NONEXISTENT_CHIPLET_ID IST_NONEXISTENT_CHIPLET_ID_MSB_0 Offset: 0x84 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 NONEXISTENT_CHIPLET_ID IST_EMMC_RESULTS_START_ADDRESS_0 Offset: 0x88 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

IST Registers Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 RESULTS_START_ADDRESS IST_EMMC_STATUS_START_ADDRESS_0 Offset: 0x8c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 STATUS_START_ADDRESS IST_EMMC_LINK_CHK_ADDRESS_0 Offset: 0x90 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 LINK_CHK_ADDRESS IST_MATCH_EMMC_HDR_ADDR_0 Offset: 0x94 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 MATCH_EMMC_HDR_ADDR IST_JUMP_TO_EMMC_HDR_ADDR_0 Offset: 0x98 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N

IST Registers Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 JUMP_TO_EMMC_HDR_ADDR IST_JUMP_TO_UCODE_HDR_ADDR_0 Offset: 0x9c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 14:0 0x0 JUMP_TO_UCODE_HDR_ADDR IST_UCODE_START_ADDRESS_0 Offset: 0xa0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 14:0 0x0 UCODE_START_ADDRESS IST_IST_CLK_GATE_OVR_0 Offset: 0xa4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 IST_CLK_GATE_OVR

IST Registers IST_JTAGCTLR_IST_CLK_GATE_OVR_0 Offset: 0xa8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 JTAGCTLR_IST_CLK_GATE_OVR IST_EMMC_CTLR_ERR_MASK_CONFIG_0_0 Offset: 0xac Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 emmc_ctlr_err_mask_config_0 IST_EMMC_CTLR_ERR_MASK_CONFIG_1_0 Offset: 0xb0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 emmc_ctlr_err_mask_config_1 IST_EMMC_CTLR_ERR_MASK_CONFIG_2_0 Offset: 0xb4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

IST Registers Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 emmc_ctlr_err_mask_config_2 IST_EMMC_CTLR_ERR_MASK_CONFIG_3_0 Offset: 0xb8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 emmc_ctlr_err_mask_config_3 IST_EMMC_CTLR_ERR_MASK_CONFIG_4_0 Offset: 0xbc Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 emmc_ctlr_err_mask_config_4 IST_EMMC_CTLR_ERR_MASK_CONFIG_5_0 Offset: 0xc0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 emmc_ctlr_err_mask_config_5

Design for Debugging (DFD)
