## 10.11 I2C Controller (I2C)
### 10.11.1 Overview
The general purpose high-speed I2C controller enables system expansion using I2C-based devices. It is compliant with the NXP® I2C-bus Specification, revision 03 and the Arm® AMBA APB Protocol Specification v2.0. The number of devices that can be connected to the I2C-bus is limited to a maximum bus capacitive loading of 400 pF, which is high enough to support many devices. This controller could also be connected to an I2C I/O expander for more convenient use with multiple devices.
#### 10.11.1.1 Features
Supported Modes: Standard Mode (SM) Fast Mode (FM) Fast Mode Plus (FM+) High-Speed (HS) Simultaneous master controller and slave controller operation Clock stretching by slave device One to sixteen-word burst data transfers in DMA mode for the Master controller (packet mode of operation) 64 Kbyte transfers in packet mode. Can be extended beyond 64 Kbytes by breaking up transfers into multiple packets (in both DMA and non-DMA modes) 64 Kbyte transfers in FIFO mode from slave 7-bit or 10-bit addressing transactions (both master and slave) Master is capable of data transfers to/from two or more slaves consecutively with a repeated-start condition Fully programmable 7-bit or 10-bit address for the slave Bus clear operations to address SDA driven LOW issues

I2C Controller (I2C) General call addressing Recognition and transfer of data to peripherals that do not send an acknowledge (ACK) Note: Packet based DMA support can reduce software complexity since the interaction between driver and hardware is minimized. The I2C controller supports DMA for master modes of operation over the APB bus; there is no DMA support for slave modes of operation. The I2C controller also supports packet mode transfers where the data to be transferred is encapsulated in a predefined packet format as payload and sent to the I2C controller over the APB bus. The header of the packet specifies the type of operation to be performed, the size, and other parameters (described in detail in subsequent sections). There are a total of nine I2C instances; available I2C ports depend on pin-muxing and system configuration options selected. The following table provides a summary of all I2C instances. Table 10.88 I2C Controller Map I2C Instance Verilog Ball Names I2C1 GEN1_I2C_[SCL,SDA] I2C2 GEN2_I2C_[SCL,SDA] I2C3 CAM_I2C_[SCL, SDA] I2C4 DP_AUX_CH1_[P,N] I2C5 PWR_I2C_[SCL, SDA] I2C6 DP_AUX_CH0_[P,N] I2C7 DP_AUX_CH2_[P,N] I2C8 GEN8_I2C_[SCL,SDA] I2C9 DP_AUX_CH3_[P,N]
#### 10.11.1.2 Clocking
The I2C controller has three clock domains: 1. The host interface runs on the APB clock (pclk). The I2C controller clock runs on a variable software-controlled frequency. 2. 3. The time-out logic runs on a 32 kHz clock.

I2C Controller (I2C)
### 10.11.2 Functional Description
The I2C controller supports both Master and Slave operations. The Master can address the internal slave (for basic testing) or an external 7-bit or 10-bit addressed Slave device. The Master can be programmed for either a single slave transaction or a two-slave transaction. The two-slave transaction is generally useful in a random read from an external device. When reading from an external device, the random read-address needs to be set with an initial dummy-write to the device, followed by a repeated-start and a read transaction to the same device. The internal Slave address can be programmed to be either a 7-bit or a 10-bit address. The figure below shows the I2C controller’s block diagram with master, slave, and bus clear controllers.
**Figure 10.148 I2C Controller Block Diagram**
#### 10.11.2.1 Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG)
The I2C implements hardware-controlled Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) in both master and slave controller logic to save power. It is enabled by default. There is also a provision to override SLCG using programmable register bit fields. The override bits are available per SLCG block in

I2C Controller (I2C) controller register bit fields. Also, the CAR module provides a global clock override signal using which all SCLGs can be disabled simultaneously.
#### 10.11.2.2 Bus Clear Master Operation
Bus clear logic helps to resolve I2C bus hang issues. If the data line (SDA) is permanently pulled low because a slave device is pulling it low continuously for some unknown reason, the I2C master loses the bus arbitration and stops driving the I2C bus. In this case, software can use the Bus Clear master to get the SDA line released by sending clock pulses on the SCL line. Per the I2C specification, the device that held the bus Low should release it sometime within nine clock pulses. But if the device needs more clock pulses than the default nine pulses, software has an option to do so by programming a configurable register bit field (I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD]) to the required number of clock pulses.
##### 10.11.2.2.1 Bus Clear Programming Procedure:
Upon ARB_LOST notification from the I2C controller, software initiates the Bus Clear operation. Note that ARB_LOST could be due to many reasons; for example, in a multi-master platform, any other master could occupy the I2C-bus already and if software initiates a data transfer from the I2C controller at this time, the I2C master would back-off or it may lose the bus during the bus- arbitration procedure if both masters start transfers simultaneously. In this case the I2C master notifies it with ARB_LOST status in packet mode of operation. Other ARB_LOST cases included programming issues such as controller register configuration, pin-muxing, pin tri-state clear, etc. The Bus Clear operation needs to be used only if the ARB_LOST notification is due to a slave device pulling the SDA line continuously low. I2C hardware does not identify on its own whether ARB_LOST is due to bus busy or another master transfer or slave device continuously pulling the SDA line low. Continue with the same clock settings as before or change if high or low frequency is needed. 1. Reset the I2C controller using module reset bit CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_I2Cx_0 [SWR_I2Cx_RST] (where x=1,2,3,..,10) in CAR module after ARB_LOST notification from the controller. Program I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD] bit field to the required number of clock pulses. If BC_TERMINATE=THRESHOLD is chosen, program BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD to N+1 where “N” is the required number of clock pulses on SCL line. Select STOP or NO_STOP condition using I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_STOP_COND] bit field. Program I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_TERMINATE] as needed. Set I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] register bit field to 1 and wait until this bit field is auto-cleared by Hardware to zero. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

I2C Controller (I2C) 7. Finally set I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_ENABLE] bit field to start the bus clear operation. Hardware auto clears this bit after bus clear operation is done. Once enabled, bus clear logic starts sending clock pulses on the SCL line. Based on BC_TERMINATE settings, 8. 9. a. IMMEDIATE: Bus Clear logic sends clock pulses until SDA is released or the threshold count is reached whichever is earlier or THRESHOLD: Send threshold number of clock pulses irrespective of SDA line release status (released before threshold is reached or not-released with threshold count reached) b. 10. If SDA is released within the programmed number of clock pulses, Bus Clear logic terminates the transaction with STOP/No-STOP condition based on BC_STOP_COND settings. Then set the bus_clear operation status in I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_STATUS_0[BC_STATUS] register bit field. Finally sets the BUS_CLEAR_DONE bit field in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 and also interrupts the system if corresponding interrupt enable bit is set in I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0. So Software has to wait until it receives the BUS_CLEAR_DONE interrupt if interrupt method is used or BUS_CLEAR_DONE status bit set if status-polling method is used before going for BUS CLEAR operation successful/fail status check in I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_STATUS_0[BC_STATUS] After receiving BUS_CLEAR_DONE interrupt, also check if I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0[BC_ENABLE] bit is auto-cleared by Hardware. If this bit is not cleared, it means, I2C clock settings are not correct. Fix the clocks programming. 11. 12. 13. After the Bus Clear operation is done, an I2C controller reset is required in certain cases. See the following table for the details. 14. Table 10.89 I2C Controller Reset Required After Bus Clear Initial I2C Bus State BC_TERMINATE Setting BC_STOP_COND Setting Reset Required BUSY IMMEDIATE STOP No BUSY IMMEDIATE NO_STOP Yes BUSY THRESHOLD STOP No BUSY THRESHOLD NO_STOP Yes Free IMMEDIATE STOP No Free IMMEDIATE NO_STOP No Free THRESHOLD STOP No Free THRESHOLD NO_STOP No

I2C Controller (I2C)
#### 10.11.2.3 Multi-Master Operation
The I2C bus supports multi-master operation. That means there can be more than one master device connected to the bus as shown in the figure below and each master can drive the bus to perform the data transfers. This could cause collisions when two or more masters try to drive the bus simultaneously and could result into bus corruption. To avoid this, there needs to be a method for deciding which device takes the bus control and complete its transmission. I2C uses clock synchronization and arbitration to achieve multi-master functionality.
**Figure 10.149 I2C Multi-Master Bus**
Clock synchronization is a process to synchronize the clocks of two or more master devices. For successful bus arbitration, a synchronized clock is needed. For this, each master device should monitor the bus SCL line and perform low and high transitions on its internal clock (SCL) line accordingly. Once a master pulls the SCL low, it holds the SCL line in that state until all masters have released it to put the clock into a high state. Similarly, the SCL line is high until the first master pulls it low. Arbitration is a process to determine which master can use the bus when two or more masters try to use the bus simultaneously. In normal transfers, only one master drives the bus if the bus is free. But if two masters initiate transfers simultaneously, arbitration is needed to determine which master wins the bus and complete its transaction. Arbitration is done using the SDA line. During every bit while the SCL line is HIGH, each master checks to see if the SDA line level matches what it has driven. If there is a mismatch, this master loses the arbitration and stops driving the SDA line. Other master goes ahead and completes its transaction. So no information is lost during the arbitration.

I2C Controller (I2C) Though data loss is not seen in multi-master arbitration but is given in the I2C specification, there are undefined conditions if the arbitration procedure is still in progress and the following happens: Master 1 sends a repeated START condition and Master 2 sends a data bit Master 1 sends a STOP condition and Master 2 sends a data bit Master 1 sends a repeated START condition and Master 2 sends a STOP condition Note: The I2C specification does not indicate how to handle these cases. So the system designer has to consider these cases while designing an I2C multi-master system.
##### 10.11.2.3.1 Multi-Master Requirements
Each master in a multi-master system should monitor the bus status so that it starts its transmissions only when the bus is free. The bus is considered to be busy after the START condition. The bus is considered to be free again a certain time (minimum tBUF as given in the I2C specification) after the STOP condition. So if a device which needs the bus for its transmissions detects that the bus is busy, then it has to wait until the STOP condition is seen on the bus and then transmit its data. 1. All devices connected to a multi-master I2C bus must be multi-master capable. Otherwise, a device with single master capability only may not detect the bus busy status and could interfere with on-going transactions on the bus causing the bus corruption. 2.
##### 10.11.2.3.2 I2C Usage Guidelines for Multi-Master Operation
The I2C follows Multi-master bus requirements. When initiating a transfer by software, it checks the I2C bus status and starts the transmission if the bus is free. It uses the bus START condition for Bus busy detection. 1. Bus Busy Detection: The I2C Master sets its internal Bus Busy status when it sees START condition on the bus. The status remains busy until a STOP condition is seen. 2. In a multi-master system where I2C is used as one of the master devices, the I2C controller needs to be ON: 3. either from the beginning of the I2C bus enabled or a. when the bus is free So that the master detects the START condition of a transaction (if any) issued by another master so bus busy does not interrupt on-going communications. b. For the I2C controller to be ON, its clocks need to be enabled and the reset needs to be released. The clocks enable and Reset controls are in the CAR module. See the Clock and Reset Controller Registers section in the Clock Controller chapter. The clock controls from the CAR module are called first level clocks to the I2C controller. 4. If software implements any transaction level clock gating, it has to be disabled in multi- master systems. 5.

I2C Controller (I2C) 6. The requirement is that the I2C controller should be ON as long as the bus is used in multi- master operation. Multi-Master in Normal Mode In Multi-master cases, there is a difference between Normal and Packet Modes in the way I2C works. In Normal Mode, when software initiates a transfer from the I2C Master controller but the bus is busy, the controller waits until the bus becomes free and then goes on to complete the transaction. Multi-Master in Packet Mode In Packet mode, when the I2C master is initiated for a data transfer but the bus is busy, the controller does not drive the bus. It cancels the current transaction and sets the ARB_LOST status. Software has to handle the ARB_LOST event with the procedure given in the section on Error Handling.
##### 10.11.2.3.3 Low-Power Operation
I2C is a low-speed serial interface with only two bus lines (SCL, SDA) required. So from the I2C specification side, there is no low-power operation specifically defined for the interface. But to save the power, use the lowest possible speed, if performance is not needed. The following bus speeds are supported by I2C: Standard mode (Sm) Fast mode (Fm) Fast mode Plus (FM+ High-speed mode (HS mode) SLCG I2C has implemented SLCG, a power saving feature, and it is ON by default. Unless required, keep SLCG enabled during the functional transfers in real use cases. Slave Controller Disable Slave logic has an enable bit, but keep it disabled if Slave logic is not needed. Idle Power Programming In Single Master bus configurations, when the module is not used or interface is idle, disable the module clock by clearing the CLK_ENB_I2C bits in the CAR module. For example, the I2C1 clock

I2C Controller (I2C) enable bit is CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_I2C1_0[CLK_ENB_I2C1]. Software can clear this bit when it is seen that no transfers are needed from the I2C1 instance.
##### 10.11.2.3.4 Software Interfaces
A typical peripheral controller might require the following steps to communicate or control an external peripheral: 1. 2. 3. 4. Set up the registers Program the 'go' bit to start the interaction with the external peripheral The peripheral controller collects the response from the peripheral and interrupts software Software reads the response
##### 10.11.2.3.5 Packet Flow
Information exchange between the hardware peripheral controller and software as described above can be classified into: 'Request' flow which can represent the register writes 'Response' flow for peripheral controller responses sent back to software 'Interrupt' flow for out-of-band handshakes between hardware and software Packets within a flow can be exchanged in a manner that requires full intervention from the CPU (PIO mode) or least intervention from the CPU (DMA mode). The I2C I/O packet structure is described below.
##### 10.11.2.3.6 I/O Packet Format
An I/O packet consists of a header and payload. The header consists of two parts: two words of generic header and one-four words of protocol-specific header.

I2C Controller (I2C)
**Figure 10.150 I/O Packet**
I/O Packet Word 0 Word 0 of the I/O packet contains the Generic Header Word 0. The contents of generic header word 0 are described in the table below. Table 10.90 Generic I/O Header Word 0 Bits Field Description 31:3 Reserved Reserved 29:2 ProtHdrS z Size of the protocol-specific header in words 0 = 1 words 1 = 2 words 2 = 3 words 3 = 4 words For I2C, ProtHdrSz = 0 for request packets and 1 for response packets. 27:2 Reserved Reserved 23:1 PktId PktId is an 8-bit field that identifies the packet. A peripheral controller might choose to log the packet ID for a packet that causes errors 15:1 Controller ID There might be multiple controllers supporting any format. For example, there might be four I2C controllers. The Controller ID field specifies the controller for which this packet is destined. 11:8 Reserved Reserved

I2C Controller (I2C) Bits Field Description 7:4 Protocol The protocol is indicated in this field 0 = reserved 1 = I2C 2-15 = reserved 3:3 Reserved Reserved 2:0 PktType Packet type information 0 = request 1 = response 2 = interrupt 3 = stop 4~7 = reserved I/O Packet Word 1 Word 1 of the I/O packet contains Generic Header Word 1. The contents of Generic Header Word 1 are described in the table below. Table 10.91 Generic I/O Header Word 1 Bits Field Description 31:16 Reserved Reserved 15:0 PayloadSi ze Payload size in bytes Note about Payload Size: For request packets that transmit data, the total packet size is: 8 bytes of generic header + 4 bytes of protocol-specific header + payload_size. However, for request packets with a read command, the payload size indicates the amount of data to be received. Hence the packet size is, 8 bytes of generic header + 4 bytes of protocol-specific header, because there is no payload in this packet, just the receive command.
##### 10.11.2.3.7 Transferring Packets
Packets can be transferred using PIO or DMA modes. The header is a minimum of three words with the first two words reserved for packet information and the third word reserved for protocol- specific requirements. A minimum of four words is needed to transfer one byte to the external peripheral.
##### 10.11.2.3.8 Protocol-Specific Header
I2C has Protocol-Specific Header with a size of one word. The contents of the I2C protocol-specific header are described in the next section.

I2C Controller (I2C)
##### 10.11.2.3.9 I2C Master Packet Protocol-Specific Headers
The I2C master supports two kinds of packets. 1. 2. Transmit packets that flow from host to controller. Receive data packets that flow from controller to host. Table 10.92 I2C Master Transmit Packet Header Bit Name Description 31:26 Reserved Reserved Reserved Reserved. Program 0 to this bit field Reserved Reserved. Program 0 to this bit field Reserved Reserved HS_MODE Enable High speed mode (3.4 MHz operation) CONTINUE_ON_NA CK Enable mode to handle devices that do not generate ACK upon the reception of a byte. SEND_START_BYTE 1 = Send a start byte at the beginning of the transaction READ/WRITE 1 = READ Address mode 1 = 10-bit mode 0 = 7-bit mode IE Generate interrupt upon packet completion. This is needed only for Packet_Xfer_Complete interrupt only. All_Packets_Xfer_Complete interrupt has no dependency on this bit settings. REPEAT_START/ STOP 1 = Put a repeat start condition on the bus (to continue transaction) 0 = Put a stop condition on the bus ContinueXfer This bit overrides the REPEAT_START/STOP command above. 0: Introduce repeat start or stop condition based on bit 16. 1: Continue with current transfer without stop or repeat start condition. 14:12 HS_MASTER_ADDR High Speed mode Master code 11:10 Reserved Reserved 9:0 SLAVE_ADDR Slave address. Bit 0 is ignored for 7-bit addressing, but should always match bit 19 (READ/WRITE). I2C transfer with Slave-address byte only is not supported in the controller.

I2C Controller (I2C)
##### 10.11.2.3.10 Master Controller: Speed Modes in Normal and Packet Modes
Table 10.93 Speed Modes in Normal/Packet Mode for I2C Master Controller Normal Mode Packet Mode Standard Mode (SM) Fast Mode (FM) Fast Mode Plus (FM+) Standard Mode (SM) Fast Mode (FM) Fast Mode Plus (FM+) HS Mode (HS)
##### 10.11.2.3.11 DMA Capabilities and Usage Model
Only the I2C Master controller has DMA capability. I2C Slave controllers have no DMA capability. I2C Master: 1. 2. 3. I/O Transfer size is always known ahead DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings For DMA burst size not a multiple of the I/O transfer size in words: Use DMA + PIO or Use lowest DMA burst size possible (for example, 1 word) ◦ ◦ I/O Transfer Size DMA Burst Size I/O FIFO Threshold 16*(DMA Burst size) Supported 8*(DMA Burst size) Supported 4*(DMA burst size) Supported 1*(DMA Burst size) Supported Example: DMA Burst Size I/O Transfer Size Supported/Not Supported 144 bytes = 36 words Not Supported 80 bytes = 20 words Not Supported 72 bytes = 18 words Not Supported Any size Supported

I2C Programming Guidelines
### 10.11.3 I2C Programming Guidelines
#### 10.11.3.1 I2C Frequency Divisor Register
The FREQUENCY DIVISOR register (CLK_SOURCE_I2C register) must be programmed as a function of the CLK_SOURCE selected for I2C as follows: Note In the below expressions, TLOW is used to represent I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0[TLOW]. Similarly THIGH: I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0[THIGH] HS_TLOW: I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0[HS_TLOW] HS_THIGH: I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0[HS_THIGH] The clock enable (e.g., CLK_ENB_I2C1 bit for I2C1 instance) must also be set before any write and read access to the I2C registers.

I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.1 Example Settings for Various I2C Speeds
SM/FM/FM+ Speed Mode settings: Debou nce I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 I2C DataRat e I2C_I2C_INTE RFACE_TIMIN G_0_0 I2C_CLK_DIV ISOR+1 I2C_CLK_DIVI SOR _STD_FAST_ MODE+1 I2C_CLK _SRC I2C_CLK_SR C Frequency (in MHz) I2C SpeedMod e (TLO W+1) (THIG H+1) (TSU_ST A+1) (THD_ST A+1) (TSU_ST O+1) (TBUF +1) FM+ PLLP_OUT (2+1) = 3 (36+1) = 37 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 918kHz FM PLLP_OUT (2+1) = 3 (88+1) = 89 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 382kHz SM PLLP_OUT (2+1) = 3 (79+1) = 80 (8+1) = (7+1) = (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 9 (8+1) = 100kHz High-Speed (HS) Mode settings: Note: For HS transfers, both Non-HS and HS timing registers need to be programmed as Master code is sent in a Non-HS speed mode. For this, use one of speed modes (SM or FM or FM+) settings from the above table. For data transfers, use the HS timing settings as given in the table below.

I2C Programming Guidelines Debo unce I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_ 1_0 I2C DataRa te I2C_CL K_SRC I2C_CLK_SRC Frequency (in MHz) I2C_CLK_DI VISOR+1 I2C_CLK_DIVISO R_HSMODE+1 I2C_I2C_HS_I NTERFACE_TI MING_0_0 I2C SpeedMo de (HS_TSU_ STA+1) (HS_THD_ STA+1) (HS_TSU_ STO+1) (HS_T HIGH +1) (HS_T LOW+ 1) HS PLLP_OU T0 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (8+1) = (3+1) = (9+1) = 10 (9+1) = 10 (9+1) = 10 3.48MHz I2C Timing register settings with I2C_CLK_SRC: CLK_M Note: HS mode is not possible with CLK_M frequency. Debou nce I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 I2C DataRat e I2C_I2C_INTE RFACE_TIMIN G_0_0 I2C_CLK_DIV ISOR+1 I2C_CLK_DIVI SOR _STD_FAST_ MODE+1 I2C_CLK _SRC I2C_CLK_SR C Frequency (in MHz) I2C SpeedMo de (TLO W+1) (THIG H+1) (TSU_ST A+1) (THD_ST A+1) (TSU_ST O+1) (TBUF +1) FM+ CLK_M 19.2 (0+1) = 1 (5+1) = 6 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 800kHz FM CLK_M 19.2 (0+1) = 1 (12+1) = 13 (1+1) = (1+1) = (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = 3 (2+1) = ~370kHz SM CLK_M 19.2 (0+1) = 1 (19+1)= 20 (4+1) = (4+1) = (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 5 (4+1) = 96kHz De-bounce impacts the I2C interface data rate in the following way.

I2C Programming Guidelines

I2C Programming Guidelines Example: CLK_SOURCE = 408 MHz and Source Div = 5: I2C_Clock frequency = 408 / 5 = 81.6 MHz, thus I2C clock period = 12.25 ns Chip internal delay = 10 ns, Load_Delay = 55 ns, De-bounce = 2, Synchronizer Delay = ~3 Round_Trip_Delay = (10 ns + 55 ns + 9 * 12.25 ns) = ~175.25 ns FM+ speed case: STD_FM_Div = 10 STD_FM_Div * I2C_Clk_Period = 10 * 12.255 ns = 122.55 ns Round_Trip_Delay in I2C_Div cycles = Round_Trip_Delay/(STD_FM_Div * I2C_Clk_Period) = 1 (Rounded down) So, I2C SCL rate = 408 MHz / (5 * (8+1) * 10) = 906 kHz If de-bounce is disabled, the Round_Trip_delay (in I2C_Div cycles) becomes less than 1. So, I2C SCL rate = 408 MHz / (5 * 8 * 10) = 1002 kHz = 1.02 MHz
##### 10.11.3.1.2 I2C Command ADDR Registers (used in Normal Mode Only)
These registers, I2C_CMD_ADDR0 and I2C_CMD_ADDR1, contain the address of the slave with which a transaction is intended. The I2C Master Controller can be programmed to transact with both 7-bit and 10-bit addressed slaves. Bit [0] of the I2C_CNFG register determines the size of the slave address to be transacted. If a 7-bit or a 10-bit slave address is chosen, the respective address is taken from I2C_CMD_ADDR0 [9:0], and the Read/Write command is taken from bits 6 and 7 of the I2C_CNFG Register. In a 2-Slave configuration, the slave 1 address (7-bit or 10-bit) is taken from I2C_CMD_ADDR0 [9:0] and Slave 2 address (7-bit or 10-bit) from I2C_CMD_ADDR1 [9:0]. The transfer length is the same in 2-slave operation and is taken from the I2C_CNFG [LENGTH] bit field. In 2-slave operation, the maximum possible transfer size is 4 bytes.
##### 10.11.3.1.3 I2C Data Registers (used in Normal Mode Only)
There are two data registers, I2C_CMD_DATA1 and I2C_CMD_DATA2, each of 32 bit length, which are to be loaded with the data to be transmitted or received as an I2C Master. When being used as I2C slave, the controller uses a separate byte-wide register to store the data to be transmitted or received (I2C_SL_RCVD register).

I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.4 I2C Configuration Register
This register is to be configured with the following data: Number of bytes to be transmitted or received Select for 7-bit or 10-bit slave address Program to send a Start Byte Single or two slave operations Support of NOACK from an external peripheral The I2C_CNGF [9] bit is used to issue a "Begin-Transaction" command to the I2C Master Controller. This bit is auto cleared by the hardware. The firmware should first configure all the other registers and bits [8:0] of the I2C_CNFG register before the I2C_CNFG [9] bit is programmed to one.
##### 10.11.3.1.5 I2C Configuration Load Register
This CONFIG load register transfers the software programmed configuration in the I2C registers to hardware internal registers used in the logic. It has three bit fields: 1. 2. 3. MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD for regular master and Bus Clear master logic SLV_CONFIG_LOAD for slave controller logic TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD for SMBUS timeout logic. Software must set these fields to 1 for the actual register configuration to take effect. Thus software is programming only shadow registers through regular configuration. When these load_config bit fields are set to 1, it causes the regular/shadow registers configuration to be transferred to the hardware internal active registers. So software has to set these bit fields at the end of all regular register configurations. However, in normal or non-packet mode, these bit fields should be set to 1 before the I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] bit is set to 1. The I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] bit triggers a transfer on the I2C bus and should be programmed at the end of the entire configuration. These config_load bits are hardware auto-clear bits. Hardware clears these bit fields once the register configuration is moved to hardware internal active registers. Software must wait until these bits are auto-cleared before continuing with further programming. The wait time is not more than 100 ns for apb_clk = 100 MHz and i2c_clk = 100 MHz. When apb_clk = 20 MHz and i2c_clk = 20 MHz, it is not more than 500 ns time. Below are the register bit fields associated with each CONFIG_LOAD bit. MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD needs to be set for the following registers: I2C_I2C_CNFG_0 I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0

I2C Programming Guidelines I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0 I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 SLV_CONFIG_LOAD covers the following registers: I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0 I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0 I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[RST_SL_ON_TIMEOUT] I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD covers the following register bit fields: I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TIMEOUT] I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_SEXT] I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_MEXT] I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TIMEOUT_EN] I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_SEXT_EN] I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0[TLOW_MEXT_EN]
##### 10.11.3.1.6 I2C Controller Status Register
This register (I2C_STATUS) gives the status of the I2C Master operation. It includes the busy status of the I2C controller and the completion status of the command executed.
##### 10.11.3.1.7 I2C Interface Timing Registers
These registers provide flexibility to tune the I2C interface bus timing, if needed. Separate bit fields are provided for non-HS (STD/FM/FM+) and HS modes timing.
##### 10.11.3.1.8 I2C Master Controller Soft Reset Register
This register has a SOFT_RESET bit field that provides the option to reset the master controller without losing the register configuration. This does not impact the slave controller. If the software finds a requirement to reset the master controller alone, this bit field is useful. Master and slave controllers can be used simultaneously in an application. Writing 1 to I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] resets all internal states of the master logic,

I2C Programming Guidelines including FIFOs. Clear this bit to 0 for normal operation. For I2C applications where Timeout logic is not used, the software needs to wait for 2 µs after assertion and de-assertion of this soft reset. For SMBus applications, wait for 5 ms after assertion and deassertion of soft reset.
##### 10.11.3.1.9 I2C Slave ADDR Registers
Two slave ADDR registers are used to configure the address of the internal slave, I2C_SL_ADDR1 and I2C_SL_ADDR2. The bit [0] of I2C_SL_ADDR2 determines the address-size of the internal slave. When this bit is programmed to 0, the 7-bit slave address is taken from I2C_SL_ADDR1 [6:0]. When this bit is programmed to 1, the most significant two bits of the 10-bit slave address are taken from I2C_SL_ADDR2[2:1] and the least significant bits are taken from I2C_SL_ADDR1[7:0].
##### 10.11.3.1.10 I2C Controller Slave Status Register
This register (I2C_SL_STATUS) contains the status of an I2C slave. It has the following status bits: Bit 1: Direction of transfer Bit 2: New Transaction Received Bit 3: Receive Interrupt Bit 4: END_TRANS; this bit is set when an I2C transfer is complete (as indicated by either a STOP or NoACK from master). Bit 5: RST_SL; the byte received following the receipt of general call address is 0x06. Therefore programmable part of the slave address needs to be reset and reprogrammed. Bit 6: REPROG_SL; the byte received following the receipt of general call address is 0x04. Therefore reprogram the programmable part of the slave address. Bit 7: HW_MSTR_INT; when set this bit indicates that master address has been transmitted after general call address. Bits [14:8]: Hardware master address; the contents of this field are meaningful only when bit 7 (HW_MSTR_INT) is set. Note that the I2C controller generates an interrupt at the completion of each data byte received. In response to this interrupt, firmware must read the I2C_SL_STATUS register to confirm the cause of the interrupt and the direction of data transfer. If the interrupt is due to a data byte received (R/ W=0), firmware must read the data register and write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear the interrupt and get the SCL line released. If the interrupt is due to read operation (R/W=1), data should be written to I2C_SL_RCVD in order to release the SCL line from clock stretching. The I2C controller delays the release of the ACK handshake on the I2C bus until the SL.IRQ bit has been cleared by the firmware. The software has to write 1 to clear SL_STATUS register bits. I2C_SL_STATUS needs to be either polled or the I2C interrupt must be enabled for transfers to occur in slave mode.

I2C Programming Guidelines If the device slave is receiving data: I2C_SL_STATUS.SL_IRQ bit set indicates that byte has been received. Check the transfer direction from the RNW field. Read data byte from I2C_SL_RCVD register. Write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear SL_IRQ which causes the bus to be released. SL_IRQ is set again upon reception of next byte. If the device slave is transmitting data: I2C_SL_STATUS.SL_IRQ bit set indicates that address has been received. Check the transfer direction from the RNW field. Write 1 to I2C_SL_STATUS [SL_IRQ] to clear SL_IRQ. Write data byte to I2C_SL_RCVD register. This write causes the bus to be released. SL_IRQ is set again upon transfer of the byte. Another byte can be written to continue the operation. The slave stretches the SCL line in the following cases: Pending Interrupts from I2C_SL_STATUS register after a byte received in write or a data byte needs to be sent in read operation. The software has to clear them by writing 1 to the reg bit fields, which releases the SCL line. TX-FIFO is empty and no data is available to send to the master during a read operation. The software to write data to TX-FIFO to get the SCL line released. RX-FIFO is full and no room remains in the FIFO to receive any more data from the master. The software to read the RX-FIFO to allow the SCL line released. During address cycle, the SCL stretch occurs after the ACK bit. The stretch time includes the interrupt clear time and the SL_DELAY_COUNT. If it is a read operation, the clock stretch is extended until the data byte is written to the I2C_SL_RCVD register. During data phase, the SCL stretch occurs before and after the ACK bit. The stretch before ACK is for a duration of SL_DELAY_COUNT and the stretch time after the ACK bit is the interrupt clear time plus the SL_DELAY_COUNT period. If it is a read operation, the clock stretch is extended until the data byte is written to the I2C_SL_RCVD register.
##### 10.11.3.1.11 Clock Gating Over Ride Enable Register
The second level clock gating improves power saving (SLCG is implemented for both master and slave operations). Clock gating is enabled by default. For any reason, if clock gating needs to be disabled, it can be done through a programmable I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE register. Separate bit fields are provided for the master, bus clear master, and slave controllers.

I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.1.12 Interrupt Generation in Non-Packet (Normal) Mode
In non-packet mode, the I2C controller generates interrupts upon the completion of transmission or reception of the specified number of bytes. A Master interrupt is generated when the number of bytes of the transaction, as programmed in the LENGTH field of the I2C_CNFG register, is complete. A Slave-interrupt is generated at the transmission/reception of each byte of data including address byte by the internal slave. Slave interrupts are to be cleared by the firmware as mentioned above.
#### 10.11.3.2 Programming Guidelines for Master in Normal Mode
##### 10.11.3.2.1 Master-Transmit Programming Model
This programming example is for 7-byte writes from master to an external slave: Program the I2C_CLK_DIVISOR register to get the required data rate based on I2C CLK_SOURCE register programming in CAR module Write the slave address in I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register based on 7-bit/10-bit addressing mode Write the first 4 bytes data in I2C_CMD_DATA1 register Write the remaining 3 bytes in I2C_CMD_DATA2 register Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing based on slave device address width Program I2C_CNFG [LENGTH]. This bit field works in (n+1) fashion so for a 7 byte transfer, 6 needs to be programmed in the LENGTH bit field Set I2C_CNFG [SLV2] = 0 as this is one is slave access Set CMD1 = 0 for write operation Set NOACK to 0 or 1 based on Slave type Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register Wait until the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0 Finally, set I2C_CNFG [SEND] to 1 to begin a write transaction on the interface Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS[BUSY] bit becomes zero. Check I2C_STATUS [CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the slave for any of the bytes transferred.
##### 10.11.3.2.2 Master-Receive Programming Model
The read operation is divided into two steps based on random read or immediate read after a write. In a typical random read:

I2C Programming Guidelines 1. Write command: Send slave register/memory index first from which the data needs to be read Send read command to read the data 2. The above operation can be done in two separate configurations or in a single configuration using Repeated Start in 2-slave config 1. Write: Sending slave’s 1-byte register index first Write the slave address in I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register based on 7-bit /10-bit addressing mode Write the slave’s internal register index (from which the data has to be read) in I2C_CMD_DATA1 register Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing based on slave device address width Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 0 for a 1-byte register index transfer Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 0 Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 0 for write operation Set I2C_CNFG[NOACK] to 0 or 1 based on Slave type Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0 Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero. Check I2C_STATUS[CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the slave 2. Read: Send read command Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 6 for 7-bytes read Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 0 as this is one slave access Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 1 for read operation Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0 Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero. Check I2C_STATUS[CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the slave Read the first 4 bytes data in the I2C_CMD_DATA1 register Read the remaining 3 bytes in the I2C_CMD_DATA2 register Read using repeated-start in 2-slave mode. Note that maximum transfer size possible in 2-slave mode is 4 bytes.

I2C Programming Guidelines Write the slave address in the I2C_CMD_ADDR0 register with the LSB bit set to “0” Write the slave address in the I2C_CMD_ADDR1 register with the LSB bit set to “1” Write the slave’s internal register index byte (from which the data has to be read) in I2C_CMD_DATA1 register Program I2C_CNFG[DEBOUNCE_CNT] to the required value as needed Set I2C_CNFG[A_MOD] to 7-bit or 10-bit addressing Program I2C_CNFG[LENGTH] = 0 for 1 byte transfer Set I2C_CNFG[SLV2] = 1 Set I2C_CNFG[CMD1] = 0 for write operation Set I2C_CNFG[CMD2] = 1 for read operation Set I2C_CNFG[NOACK] to 0 or 1 based on the Slave type Set the MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD bit in the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD register Wait until I2C_CONFIG_LOAD[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] is auto-cleared by hardware to 0 Finally, set I2C_CNFG[SEND] to begin write transaction on the interface Wait until the transaction is complete – either wait until interrupt is received or I2C_STATUS [BUSY] bit becomes zero. Check I2C_STATUS [CMD1_STAT] to see if the transaction is successful or a NOACK from the slave Read data from the I2C_CMD_DATA2 register
#### 10.11.3.3 Programming Guidelines for Packet-Based Interface
##### 10.11.3.3.1 Packet-Based Interface Registers
The following registers are used for a packet-based interface: I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0 I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0 I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0 I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0

I2C Programming Guidelines I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 I2C_I2C_CNFG_0 I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0 All other registers/fields have no meaning in packet mode and should be used only in normal mode.
##### 10.11.3.3.2 Packet Header and Payload Programming
Software should post the packets to the I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO register. It writes the packet header followed by the payload to the I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO register. The header size can vary from three to four words. For I2C, the size is a three-word header for request packets and four words for response packets. The first two words of the header contain a generic header. The third word of the packet (and fourth as well for response packets) contains I2C transaction-specific information. The payload contains the actual data to be written to the slave. In case of read operations, payload is nil, and hence, the packet contains only a header.
##### 10.11.3.3.3 Reading from the I2C_RX_FIFO
The data received from the I2C bus is pushed into the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register. In PIO mode, a request interrupt is generated when the FIFO attention level is reached, and the corresponding interrupt enable bit is set. Software then reads the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register to get the data. In DMA mode, a request is asserted to DMA after the attention level is reached.
##### 10.11.3.3.4 REPEAT_START/STOP Bit in the Protocol Specific Header
This field indicates whether or not to put a stop or repeated-start condition after the current transaction. By default, this bit is zero and a stop condition is put on the bus. If this bit is set to 1, a repeat start is put on the bus before proceeding with the next packet. The REPEAT_START/STOP bit can be used for combining read operations and write operations within a single transaction with a repeat start, or to do transfers beyond the 64 Kbyte limit. This bit is present in the protocol- specific header.
##### 10.11.3.3.5 ContinueXfer Bit in the Protocol Specific Header
The I2C controller supports transfer sizes beyond 64 Kbytes without a repeat start condition, again by combining multiple packets. This is in addition to the ability to use a repeat start condition to do continuous transfers over 64 Kbyte limit. With the ContinueXfer field, the current transfer can continue without a stop or a repeat start condition.

I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.6 Transfers with START Byte
Transfers needing a longer start procedure can use the START Byte feature. In this mode, START Byte (8'b00000001) is transmitted after START condition and a dummy acknowledge (NACK) would be received. The actual transfer starts with a Repeated START condition then. For START byte transfers, set SEND_START_BYTE to 1 in the protocol specific header of the packet.
##### 10.11.3.3.7 Transfers with Slaves Having No-ACK Capability
There could be slave devices which do not generate ACK upon reception of a byte. The I2C Master has the capability to do the transfers with these devices too. This would be done by setting CONTINUE_ON_NACK bit field of the protocol specific header to 1. In this case, the I2C master ignores the NACK bit and continues the transfers.
##### 10.11.3.3.8 HS_MODE Transfers
HS_MODE transfers are supported in packet mode only. For HS transfers, write HS master code byte in HS_MASTER_ADDR field of the protocol specific header and set HS_MODE bit to 1. If HS_MODE bit is programmed to 0, all the transfers would be done in Non-HS modes (Standard/Fm/ Fm+) based on the I2C clocks frequency programming. In HS mode, Master code byte is transmitted in (Standard/Fm/Fm+) speed mode and the data transfers would happen in HS mode. I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 and I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 registers would be used for HS timing generation on the I2C bus.
##### 10.11.3.3.9 Master FIFO Control
In DMA mode, I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be empty in I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 for the DMA trigger to be asserted. I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be full in I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 for the DMA trigger to be asserted. In PIO mode, the INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] is be set if the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 empty count is more than the value programmed in TX_FIFO_TRIG. Similarly INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[RFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 full count is more than the value programmed in RX_FIFO_TRIG. The CPU is interrupted if the status bits are set and their corresponding INT_EN bit is set in the Interrupt Mask Register. The depth of the TX and RX FIFOs is 128 words. For Transmit and Receive Data requests in DMA or PIO mode, the I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] bit needs to be set to 1 along with the FIFO_TRIG level settings. Otherwise, requests are not generated.

I2C Programming Guidelines This register has separate FLUSH control bits for the Master controller TX_FIFO and RX_FIFO. Writing 1 to these bits initiates the FIFO flush operation. They are auto-cleared to 0 once the flush operation is complete.
##### 10.11.3.3.10 Master FIFO Status
This register indicates the number of entries that are empty in the Master controller TX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0[TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT]) and the number of entries that are full in the RX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0[RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT]).
##### 10.11.3.3.11 Slave FIFO Control
I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be empty in I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 for the data transmit request to be asserted. I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] indicates the number of words that need to be full in I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 for the received data request to be asserted. In PIO mode, INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER[SLV_TFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if the I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 empty count is more than the value programmed in TX_FIFO_TRIG. Similarly INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER [SLV_RFIFO_DATA_REQ] is set if I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 full count is more than the value programmed in RX_FIFO_TRIG. CPU is interrupted if status bits are set and their corresponding INT_EN is set in the Interrupt Mask Register. The depth of Tx and Rx FIFOs is 128 words. For Transmit and Receive Data requests in FIFO mode, I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] bit needs to be set to 1 along with FIFO_TRIG level settings. Otherwise, requests are not generated. This register has separate FLUSH control bits for the Slave controller TX_FIFO and RX_FIFO. Write 1 to these bits initiates the FIFO flush operation. They are auto-cleared to 0 once the flush operation is complete.
##### 10.11.3.3.12 Slave FIFO Status
This register indicates the number of entries that are empty in the Slave controller TX_FIFO (bit field: I2C_SLV_FIFO_STATUS_0[TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT]) and the number of entries that are full in the RX_FIFO (bit field:I2C_SLV_FIFO_STATUS_0[RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT]).
##### 10.11.3.3.13 Interrupt Status Register
This register (INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER) gives the status of the I2C Master in Packet Mode operation and also the status of Slave controller in FIFO mode and SMBUS timeout status. The register bits are set to 1 when the corresponding event happens. The bit fields are sticky. Once set to 1, they stay 1. Write 1 to clear them to 0. However, TFIFO_DATA_REQ and RFIFO_DATA_REQ fields are exceptions to this as they depend on the FIFO trigger levels and cannot be cleared.

I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.14 Interrupt Mask Register
This register (I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0) contains the interrupt enable bits for the status bits given in INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. A separate interrupt enable bit is available for each bit field of INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. Setting an INT_EN bit in this register enables signaling an interrupt to the system when corresponding status bit is set in the INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER. Clearing it will mask the interrupt.
##### 10.11.3.3.15 Interrupt Source Register
This read-only register (I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER) returns the AND of Interrupt Mask and Interrupt Status Registers bit fields. A bit field in this register would be set if the corresponding bit fields in I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 and INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER are set to 1. Example: I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER[ARB_LOST] = AND(I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER [ARB_LOST_INT_EN], INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER [ARB_LOST])
##### 10.11.3.3.16 Packet Transfer Status
In addition to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0, packet transfer status can be obtained from I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 and I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 registers as well with additional information of the packet. Software can read this register to know which packet is currently being transferred, how many bytes are transferred in the on-going packet or packet is successfully transferred or any Bus lost or NACK happened during the transfer. TRANSFER_PKT_ID gives the ID of on-going packet or last transmitted packet ID. TRANSFER_BYTENUM in the I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 register gives the information about the number of bytes that have been transferred so far in the current packet. Once the packet transfer is done, this field becomes zero. TRANSFER_COMPLETE field would be set when a packet (with STOP=1) is successfully transferred. ARB_LOST shows the loss of the bus. NOACK_FOR_ADDR for the NOACK received for Address byte. NOACK_FOR_DATA for the NOACK received for data byte. CONTROLLER_BUSY shows PACKET_MODE_EN bit status. It is 1 as long as packet mode is enabled.

I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.17 Error Handling
In case of an error (e.g., NOACK or loss of arbitration, TX_FIFO overflow or RX_FIFO underflow, the following steps describe the sequence that need to be followed before proceeding with any further transactions. When an error occurs, the I2C Master controller stops further packet transfers and sets the corresponding status bits in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER for the event (ARB_LOST/ NOACK/TFIFO_OVF/ RFIFO_UNF) occurred. PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS register is updated with the current error packet ID, at which the error is occurred. Handling TFIFO_OVF and RFIFO_UNF events TFIFO_OVF or RFIFO_UNF can potentially lead to I2C controller hang as there would be data drop due to FIFO overflow or packets are combined with Repeated Start in multi- packet transfers. TX_FIFO overflow or Rx underflow happens when software writes to an already full TX_FIFO or reading an empty RX_FIFO, software must avoid these conditions. - - The controller reset (from CAR) is required to recover from a I2C-bus hang; reset results in the Master controller losing the Bus Busy status information (this is a problem in multi- master mode). - Handling ARB_LOST and NOACK events If DMA is used for the transfers, disable the DMA and wait until DMA becomes idle. - Clear the I2C FIFOs entries using FIFO FLUSH bits - Clear the ARB_LOST and NOACK bits in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_Register - After completing the above, the I2C controller is ready for the transfers again - Restart the DMA if used Start new transfer following regular programming guidelines - -
##### 10.11.3.3.18 Slave ACK WithHold Feature in FIFO Mode
In FIFO mode, slave holds the I2C bus by pulling SCL line low (clock stretching) after sending the ACK for the very last byte of transfer. Register bit fields ACK_LAST_BYTE and ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID fields are used for this purpose. When Slave receives its Rx Buffer full data, it holds the I2C bus on the very last byte of the transfer. Software can ACK or NACK the transfer by setting the ACK_LAST_BYTE bit field to the required value. It has to set ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID bit field next to say that ACK_LAST_BYTE bit field has been updated. Slave sends the ACK/NACK to the interface for the next byte accordingly. Until that time, Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching. In SMBUS applications, Host (Software) is responsible for providing this indication to I2C slave in a timely fashion before timeouts happen.

I2C Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.3.19 Slave Usage in FIFO Mode
Slave data transfers can be done using FIFO. Data can be transmitted and received through I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 and I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 registers respectively. For this, FIFO_XFER_EN bit in I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 register needs to be set. In FIFO-XFER mode, slave by default works in one byte mode, i.e., initially when a single byte is received, I2C bus is held and SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED interrupt is generated. Software should indicate whether to ACK or not to the next byte in the transfer by writing into ACK_LAST_BYTE field of I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 register. Note that ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID field also needs to be set to indicate to hardware that ACK_LAST_BYTE is being updated. When software receives interrupt due to SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED, it can check ACK_WITHHELD of I2C_I2C_SLV_PACKET_STATUS_0 register to see if slave is withholding the ACK for the last byte. Software can update the buffer size from default to any number by programming I2C_SLV_PAYLOAD_0[BUFFER_SIZE].
#### 10.11.3.4 Master in Packet Mode Programming Guidelines
##### 10.11.3.4.1 Programming Model for Master-Transmit, Interrupt Method
Initial Configuration Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following: I2C clocks programming Pinmux programming I2C controller reset release I2C Controller Registers Initialization Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus) Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0

I2C Programming Guidelines Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C-Bus Speed Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details. Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing. Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204 Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404 Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308 Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for Data Requests in PIO Mode Below settings are for example only. Program this bit field to the required trigger levels. Write I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3 (0x3 = System gets request from the I2C controller when at least four words are empty in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0). Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE (for multi-master bus) Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2 Example only, program as required. Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0 Activate the Configuration I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE

I2C Programming Guidelines I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE This completes the configuration. Next step is posting the packets to the I2C controller to initiate data transfers on the I2C-bus. Packets Posting Based on TFIFO Data Requests There could be one packet or more than one packet that need to be transferred from I2C. 1. One packet transfer size(in words) = packet_header (in words) +payload_size (in words) Total transfer size = packet1_transfer_size + packet2_transfer_size +……. +packetN_transfer_size 2. 3. When the TX_FIFO attention level is reached, I2C sets the I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] bit and sends an interrupt to system if the interrupt is enabled with I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE setting 4. Transmit Data Request Interrupt Handling Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. For master transmit data requests, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ] would be set to 1. Disable the interrupt by writing I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = DISABLE Write the packet words to I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0. The total words size that would be written for every TFIFO_DATA_REQ request should be less than or equal to the FIFO trigger level. Otherwise, it causes the TX_FIFO to overflow. Decrement the total transfer size with the number of words written to the FIFO in the previous step (total_transfer_size = total_transfer_size - #words written to TX_FIFO). And check if the new transfer size is zero. If not zero, enable interrupt for TFIFO_DATA_REQ with 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.

I2C Programming Guidelines I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN] = ENABLE and wait for the new interrupt. The above steps continue until all the packets are posted to the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0. Packet parsing: once a packet is available in the TX_FIFO, I2C parses it and starts doing transfers on the I2C bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers. Successful Transfers Once a packet is transmitted successfully by the I2C Master, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the status. And if the packet header is configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is also set. If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 1. 2. Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 [PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. If the packet was configured to have STOP bit, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be set. Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 1. 2. 3. Transfers Completion Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from memory. Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE alerts (if packets have only STOP) to track how many packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C signals to the system. 1. 2. Unsuccessful Transfers A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. Transfer could be unsuccessful due to I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors.

I2C Programming Guidelines I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK for address or data byte transfer of a transaction. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full. 1. 2. 3. When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers and flushes the data from the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register. If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 4. 5. Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers 1. Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF). In all these cases, an I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers. 2. Reset the I2C controller. 3. 4. Redo the controller configuration and go for the transfers. Note: I2C issues the DATA requests to the system based on FIFO trigger levels settings and the I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] setting. PACKET_MODE_EN bit needs to be set to 1 for requests generation.
##### 10.11.3.4.2 Programming Model for Master-Transmit, DMA Method
Initial Configuration Before accessing I2C controller, set up the following: I2C clocks programming 1. Pinmux programming 2. I2C controller reset release 3. I2C Controller Registers Initialization Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0

I2C Programming Guidelines Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus) Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0 Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C Bus Speed Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details. Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing. Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204 Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404 Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308 Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for DMA Requests Below settings are for example only. Program this bit field to the required trigger levels. Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3 (0x3 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least four words are empty in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register). Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status Post I2C Packets (Headers and Data) to the Memory for the Write Transfers Refer to the I/O Packet Format section for packet structure. Program RESP_PKT_ENABLE = 0 in the packet header.

I2C Programming Guidelines Configure DMA for I2C Transfers DMA can be one of GPCDMA/BPMPDMA/AONDMA/SCEDMA. Check which DMA needs to be used based on the I2C-bus. Note the following when configuring DMA for I2C transfers: Set DMA source pointer to the memory location where the I2C packets are stored. 1. Set DMA destination pointer to I2C instance base address + I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO offset. 2. 3. 4. 5. DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings. Configure DMA to Flow control mode. DMA Transfer size should match the total packets size in words. For example, three Write packets. First packet = 3 bytes transfer, second packet = 8 bytes transfer and third packet = 11 bytes transfer. Total size = 4+5+6=15 words. Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE (for multi-master bus) Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2. Example only, program as required. Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details. Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0 Activate the Configuration I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware.

I2C Programming Guidelines With this, it initiates the write transfers from the I2C master to the bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers. Successful Transfers Once a packet is transmitted successfully by the I2C Master, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the status. And if the packet header configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit will also be set. If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system 1. 2. Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers 1. Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 [PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. If the packet was configured to have STOP bit, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be set. Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 2. 3. Transfers Completion Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from memory. Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE alerts (if packets have only STOP) to track how many packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C signals to the system. 1. 2. Unsuccessful Transfers A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. The transfer could be unsuccessful due to I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. 1.

I2C Programming Guidelines 2. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK for address or data byte transfer of a transaction. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full. 3. When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers and flushes the data from the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 register. If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 4. 5. Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers 1. Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF) In all these cases, an I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers 2. Assert I2C controller reset 3. 4. Disable DMA Release I2C controller reset 5. Redo the I2C configuration, including DMA, and go for the transfers. 6. Notes: I2C issues the requests to DMA based on FIFO trigger levels settings and the I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] setting. PACKET_MODE_EN bit needs to be set to 1 for requests generation. Packet transfer status is also available in I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 and I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 registers. Software can read these registers to know which packet is currently being transferred (TRANSFER_PKT_ID), how many bytes are transferred in the on-going packet (TRANSFER_BYTENUM) or if the previous packet with STOP setting is successfully transferred (TRANSFER_COMPLETE and TRANSFER_PKT_ID) or any ARB_LOST/NACK event happened (ARB_LOST, NOACK_FOR_ADDR/NOACK_FOR_DATA). 1. 2.
##### 10.11.3.4.3 Programming Model for Master-Receive, DMA Method
Initial Configuration Before accessing an I2C controller, set up the following: I2C clocks programming Pinmux programming I2C controller reset release

I2C Programming Guidelines I2C Controller Registers Initialization Write I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 = 0x0 (for single master bus); 0x1 (for multi-master bus) Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 = 0x0 Program I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 Register Based on the Required I2C Bus Speed Refer to the I2C Frequency Divisor Register section for details. Configure I2C Interface Timing Registers Recommendation is to use default, but if needed these registers can be programmed to achieve the required I2C interface timing. Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0204 Write I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x04070404 Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 = 0x0308 Write I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 = 0x0b0b0b Configure FIFO Trigger Levels for DMA Requests Below settings are for example only. Program the bit fields to the required trigger levels. Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x1 Write I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] = 0x3 (0x1 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least two words are empty in in the I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0). (0x3 = DMA gets request from the I2C controller when at least four words are full in the I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 register). Enable Interrupts for I2C Master Controller in Packet Mode Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[NOACK_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN] = ENABLE

I2C Programming Guidelines Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[RFIFO_UNF_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status. Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN] = ENABLE for tracking packet transfers completion status. Prepare and Save I2C Packets in the Memory for the Read Transfers Refer to the I/O Packet Format section for packet structure. Program RESP_PKT_ENABLE = 0 in the packet header. Configure DMA for I2C Transfers DMA can be one of GPCDMA/BPMPDMA/AONDMA/SCEDMA. Check which DMA needs to be used based on the I2C bus, and for complete DMA programming model, refer to the corresponding DMA programming guidelines document. It is out of scope for this document. Note the following when configuring DMA for I2C transfers: For packets transfer from memory to the I2C controller, if DMA CH0 is used: Set DMA CH0 source pointer to the memory location where the I2C packets are stored Set DMA CH0 destination pointer to I2C instance base-address + I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO offset DMA burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[TX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings Configure DMA to Flow control mode DMA CH0 transfer size should match the total packets size in words. Since it is read packets only, only packet headers would be there. For example, 3 Read packets. Total size = 3+3+3= 9 words To transfer the received-data from the I2C controller to memory, if DMA CH1 is used: Set DMA CH1 source pointer to I2C instance base address + I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 offset Set DMA CH1 destination pointer to the memory location where the I2C data needs to be saved. DMA CH1 burst size should match I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0[RX_FIFO_TRIG] level settings Configure DMA to Flow control mode DMA Transfer size should match the total words that need to be read from I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0. Configure I2C Master to Packet Mode Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MULTI_MASTER_MODE] = DISABLE (for single-master bus); ENABLE (for multi-master bus)

I2C Programming Guidelines Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[HS_RND_TRIP_DLY_EFFECT] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[DEBOUNCE_CNT] = 0x2. Example only, program as required. Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NEW_MASTER_FSM] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[PACKET_MODE_EN] = GO Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SEND] = NOP Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[NOACK] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD2] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[CMD1] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[START] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[SLV2] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[LENGTH] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_CNFG_0[A_MOD] = 0 Activate the Configuration I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE Wait for I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] and I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] bits to get cleared by the hardware With this, it will initiate the read transfers by the I2C master on the bus. The transfers could be successful or unsuccessful. Following sections describe how to identify and handle such transfers. Successful Transfers Once a packet transfer is successfully done by the I2C Master, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] bit is set to 1 to reflect the status. If the packet header configured to put STOP condition on the bus as the last packet of that transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bit will also be set. If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 1. 2. Interrupt Handling for Successful Transfers 1. Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. If a packet is transmitted successfully, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 [PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] would be set. And if the packet was configured to have STOP bit, I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] would also be set. 2.

I2C Programming Guidelines Clear them by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE] and I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE] bits accordingly. This clears the interrupt. 3. Transfers Completion Check DMA status to know if all the packets are transferred to the I2C controller from memory. Use PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have RepeatedStart or ContinueXfer settings) or ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE (if packets have only STOP) alerts to track how many packets are successfully transferred to the I2C bus. When all packets are transferred successfully to the bus, it matches total alerts that I2C sends to the system. 1. 2. Check DMA status if it read all the data bytes from the I2C controller and saved it to the memory. 3. Unsuccessful Transfers A packet transfer could be unsuccessful due to various reasons. The I2C master logs this information in I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 register. The transfer could be unsuccessful due to the I2C bus related ARB_LOST/NACK events or TX_PACKET_FIFO Overflow errors or I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 Underflow errors. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[ARB_LOST] is set to 1 if the I2C master sees the bus is already occupied by some other device when a transfer is initiated or if it loses the bus during the arbitration in multi-master case or if a slave device pulls the SDA line low continuously for some unknown reason. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[NOACK] is set to 1 if slave device responds with NACK for address or data byte transfer of a transaction. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[TFIFO_OVF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU writes to I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 even it is full. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[RFIFO_UNF] is set to 1 if DMA or CPU reads I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 even it is empty. 1. 2. 3. 4. When any of these error events happens, the I2C controller stops further packet transfers and flushes the data from the FIFOs. If interrupt enables are set, corresponding bits would be set in I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and signals an interrupt to the system. 5. 6. Interrupt Handling for Unsuccessful Transfers Read I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1 (ARB_LOST/NOACK/TFIFO_OVF/ RFIFO_UNF) 1.

I2C Programming Guidelines In all these cases, the I2C controller reset is required. Follow the below sequence before going for further transfers 2. Assert I2C controller reset 3. 4. Disable DMA Release I2C controller reset 5. Redo the I2C configuration, including DMA, and go for the transfers. 6.
#### 10.11.3.5 Programming Guidelines for Slave in Byte Mode
##### 10.11.3.5.1 Programming Model for Slave-Receive in 7-bit Addressing Mode
(Transfer Direction not Changed), Interrupt Method Initial Configuration Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following: I2C clocks programming Pinmux programming I2C controller reset release I2C Controller Registers Initialization Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED Write I2C_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0 Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0,SlaveAddress[6:0]} To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE

I2C Programming Guidelines Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields 1. 2. Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a Write transaction from the I2C Master device.

I2C Programming Guidelines Slave Response to Address Phase of the Write Transaction When Slave receives address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following. 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a new transaction is received. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared 5. New Transaction Interrupt Handling 1. 2. 3. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. Each bit field signifies an event occurrence. If a bit field is set to 1, it means, the current interrupt is because of the relevant event to this bit. In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1. Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions, I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE would be set. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt and release the SCL line allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction. 4. 5. 6. 7. Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4. Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte 1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit would be set to 1.

I2C Programming Guidelines 3. 4. Read the data byte from I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting. Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = ENABLE Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction 5. Slave Response to STOP Condition of the Write Transaction If the Master sends a STOP condition next, the Slave does the following: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating STOP condition is received Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2. Interrupts Handling When Stop Condition is Received 1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the STOP condition case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1 Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3. Notes: 1. If the Master terminates the transaction while the Slave controller is ready to accept the data, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR] bit is set at the end of the transaction when STOP condition is received. This bit can be cleared by writing 1 to it or it can be ignored. If the Slave controller sends NACK to any of the bytes during the write transfer, Master will terminate the transaction after seeing NACK bit. In this case, No status bits (END_TRANS, SL_IRQ or SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR) would be set when STOP condition is received. No interrupts either. 2.
##### 10.11.3.5.2 Programming Model for Slave-Transmit in 7-bit Addressing Mode
(Transfer Direction not Changed), Interrupt Method Initial Configuration Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following: I2C clocks programming Pinmux programming I2C controller reset release

I2C Programming Guidelines I2C Controller Registers Initialization Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0 Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]} To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0

I2C Programming Guidelines Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields 1. 2. Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a Read transaction from the I2C Master device. Slave Response to Address Phase of Read Transaction When the Slave receives an address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a new transaction is received. Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt enables bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. 5. New Transaction Interrupt Handling 1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1. Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions, I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ is set. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. Write Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. Master can read this byte now. 3. 4. 5.

I2C Programming Guidelines Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction If Master ACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to continue the read operation further. The Slave controller does the following in this case: 1. 2. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3. Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case 1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer. Slave Response to End of the Read Transaction If Master NACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to end the transaction. The Slave controller does the following then: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating the end of current transaction. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2. Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read 1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1 Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
##### 10.11.3.5.3 Programming Model for Slave-Receive-Transmit (Transfer Direction
Changed from Receive-to-Transmit with RepeatedStart) in 7-bit Addressing Mode, Interrupt Method Initial Configuration Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following: I2C clocks programming

I2C Programming Guidelines Pinmux programming I2C controller reset release I2C Controller Registers Initialization Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0 Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]} To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD_INT_EN] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0

I2C Programming Guidelines Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields 1. 2. Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero With this, Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a transaction from the I2C Master device. Slave Response to Address Phase of Write Transaction When the Slave receives address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a new transaction is received. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 5. New Transaction Interrupt Handling 1. 2. 3. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. Each bit field signifies an event occurrence. If a bit field is set to 1, it means, the current interrupt is because of the relevant event to this bit.

I2C Programming Guidelines 4. In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits would be set to 1. Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions, I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE would be set. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction. 5. 6. 7. Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4. Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte 1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Read the data byte from the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting. Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = ENABLE Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction. 5. Slave Response to Write-to-Read Transfer Direction Change with RepeatedStart Condition When the Master sends a RepeatedStart condition and changes the transfer direction from write to read, the Slave controller does the following: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates the new transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1=READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a new transaction is received. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4.

I2C Programming Guidelines Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the Master. 5. New Transaction Interrupt Handling 1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1. Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions, it would be I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. This will set I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD] bit to 1 now, and an interrupt is generated. Clear the interrupt by writing 1 to I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_WR2RD] bit field. I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_TX_BUFFER_REQ] bit is set now. This can be ignored. Write Data byte to I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. The Master can read the byte now. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction If Master ACKs previous byte of the read transfer, it means the Master wants to continue the read operation further. The Slave controller does the following in this case: 1. 2. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3. Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case 1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer. Slave Response to End of the Read Transaction If Master NACKs previous byte transfer, it means the Master wants to end the transaction. The Slave controller does the following then: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating the end of current transaction.

I2C Programming Guidelines 2. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read 1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3.
##### 10.11.3.5.4 Programming Model for Slave-Transmit-Receive (transfer direction
changed from Transmit-to-Receive with RepeatedStart) in 7-bit Addressing Mode, Interrupt Method Initial Configuration Before accessing the I2C controller, set up the following: I2C clocks programming Pinmux programming I2C controller reset release I2C Controller Registers Initialization Write I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL[SOFT_RESET] = CLEARED] Write I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_DEBUG_CONTROL = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 = 0x1e Select Slave Address Register and Configure it in 7-bit Addressing Mode Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR1] = 0 Write 7-bit slave address in I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0[SL_ADDR0] = {1'b0, SlaveAddress[6:0]} To use SL_ADDR0 bit field for Slave address, write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SELECT_SLAVE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL1_VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[SL_ADDR_HI] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0[VLD] = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE

I2C Programming Guidelines Configure Interrupt Mask Registers to Enable the Interrupts Write I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 = 0x0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[HW_MSTR_INT] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[REPROG_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RST_SL] = DISABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD] = ENABLE Write I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[ZA] = DISABLE Configure SL_CNFG Register to Enable the Slave Controller Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ENABLE_SL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[PKT_MODE_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NEWSL] = 1 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[FIFO_XFER_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[BUFFER_SIZE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[RESP] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_WITHHOLD_EN] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[ACK_LAST_BYTE] = 0 Write I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE Activate the Configuration with I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Programming I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD] = DISABLE Wait for the Hardware to Clear the I2C_CONFIG_LOAD Register Bit Fields 1. 2. Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero Wait until I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0[SLV_CONFIG_LOAD] becomes zero With this, the Slave controller is ready for the data transfers. Start a transaction from the I2C Master device. Slave Response to Address Phase of Read Transaction When the Slave receives an address byte from the bus and if the address matches its programmed address, it does the following:

I2C Programming Guidelines 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1 = READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a new transaction is received. Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt enable bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared and a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. 5. New Transaction Interrupt Handling 1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1. Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For read transactions, I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = READ is set. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. Write Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line. The Master can read this byte now. 3. 4. 5. Slave Response to Data Phase of Read Transaction If Master ACKs previous byte transfer, it means, Master wants to continue the read operation further. Slave controller does the following in this case. 1. 2. Sets the I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a request to transmit a data byte. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until a data byte is available in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register to transmit to the bus. 3. Interrupts Handling in Data Byte Transmit Case 1. 2. 3. 4. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data transmit case, only I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit by writing 1 to it. This will clear the interrupt. Write a Data byte to the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. This will release the SCL line and allow the Master to continue the transfer. Slave Response to Read-to-Write Transfer Direction Change with RepeatedStart Condition When Master wants to send RepeatedStart condition to change the transfer direction from read to write, it will NACK the last byte of the read transfer before sending Repeated condition.

I2C Programming Guidelines The Slave does the following when this happens: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating the end of read transaction. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. Interrupts Handling When Transaction END is Received During Read 1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the transaction END case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3. When New Transaction (READ) started with RepeatedStart, The Slave does the following after receiving the address byte of the new transaction: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit field with received address byte[0] bit which indicates transfer direction. 0 = WRITE, 1 = READ Saves the received address byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating that a new transaction is received. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enables bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[RCVD], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are set. 2. 3. 4. Holds the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 5. New Transaction Interrupt Handling 1. 2. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the new transaction received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1. Check I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] bit status. For write transactions, I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RNW] = WRITE is set. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[RCVD] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go to next phase of the transaction 3. 4. Slave Response to Data Phase of the Write Transaction When the Master sends a data byte, the Slave controller does the following: 1. 2. 3. Saves the received byte in the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bit indicating a byte received. Generates an interrupt to the system if interrupt enable bit I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ] is set.

I2C Registers The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I2C SCL line low) until the interrupt is cleared. 4. Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte 1. 2. 3. 4. Read I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bit is set to 1. Read the data byte from the I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 register. To continue with the transfer, keep I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = DISABLE setting. Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0[NACK] = ENABLE. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction. 5. Slave Response to STOP Condition of the Write Transaction If the Master sends STOP condition next, the Slave does the following: 1. Sets I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits indicating STOP condition is received. Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt bits (I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[END_TRANS], I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0[SL_IRQ]) are enabled. 2. Interrupts Handling When Stop Condition is Received 1. 2. Read the I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 register and check which bit fields are set to 1. In the STOP condition case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0[SL_IRQ] bits are set to 1. Clear I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[END_TRANS] and I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0[SL_IRQ] bits by writing 1 to them. This will clear the interrupt. 3. Notes: 1. If the Master terminates the transaction while the Slave controller is ready to accept the data during write transfer, I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0[SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR] bit is set at the end of the transaction when STOP condition is received. This bit can be cleared by writing 1 to it or it can be ignored. If the Slave controller sends NACK to any of the bytes during the write transfer, the Master will terminate the transaction after seeing the NACK bit. In this case, no status bits (END_TRANS, SL_IRQ or SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR) would be set when STOP condition is received. No interrupts either. 2.
### 10.11.4 I2C Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.

### OCR (Page 13430) ~~~text Technical Reference Manual
l2C Registers

4. The Slave will hold the I2C bus by doing clock stretching (holds I?C SCL line low) untikthe
interrupt is cleared.

Interrupts Handling When Received a Data Byte

1. Read l2C_l2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_O register and check which bit fields are set to’.

2. Inthe data_byte received case, I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_O[SL_IRQ] bit is'set to 1.

3. Read the data byte from the I2C_l2C_SL_RCVD_O register.

4. To continue with the transfer, keep 12C_l2C_SL_CNFG_O[NACK] = DISABLE setting.
Otherwise, to signal the Master to stop the transfer, configure I2C_l|2C_SL_CNFG_O[NACK] =
ENABLE.

5. Clear l2C_l2C_SL_STATUS_O[SL_IRQ] by writing 1 to it. This clears the interrupt and releases
the SCL line, allowing the Master to go ahead with next phase of the transaction.

Slave Response to STOP Condition of the Write Transaction
If the Master sends STOP condition next, the Slave does the following:

1. Sets 12C_l2C_SL_STATUS_O[END_TRANS] and I2C_42C_SL_STATUS_O[SL_IRQ] bits indicating
STOP condition is received.

2. Generates an interrupt to the system if Interrupt bits
(l2C_l2C_SL_INT_MASK_O[END_TRANS], l2€ M2C_SL_INT_MASK_O[SL_IRQ]) are enabled.

Interrupts Handling When Stop Condition is Received

1. Read the l2C_l2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_O/register and check which bit fields are set to 1.

2. Inthe STOP condition case, |I2C_l2€/SL_INT_SOURCE_O[END_TRANS] and
I2C_l2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_O[SLAIRQ] bits are set to 1.

3. Clear l2C_l2C_SL_STATUS_O[END_TRANS] and I2C_l2C_SL_STATUS_O[SL_IRQ] bits by writing
1 to them. This will clear theNinterrupt.

Notes:

1. If the Master terminates the transaction while the Slave controller is ready to accept the data
during write transfer,12C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_O[SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR] bit is set at
the end of the transaction when STOP condition is received. This bit can be cleared by writing
1 to it or it can\be ignored.

2. If the Slaveccontroller sends NACK to any of the bytes during the write transfer, the Master
will terminate the transaction after seeing the NACK bit. In this case, no status bits
(END_TRANS, SL_IRQ or SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR) would be set when STOP condition is received.
No interrupts either.

10.19-4 12C Registers

Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well
as recommendations for accessing registers. ~~~

I2C Registers This register set is identical for all the I2C controllers. I2C_I2C_CNFG_0 IC Controller Configuration Register The I2C_CNFG register is used to configure: the number of bytes to be transmitted or received the slave device type (either a 7-bit device or a 10-bit device) enable mode to send Start-byte or not to select either a single slave transaction or two slave transactions enable mode to handle devices that do not generate an ACK. Offset: 0x0 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00020800 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx10,0000,1000,0000,0000) Bit R/W Reset Description RW ENABLE MULTI_MASTER_MODE: Used to select single or multi master mode 0 = single master; 1 = multi_master In single_master mode, no Arbitration checks would happen 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 MSTR_CLR_BUS_ON_TIMEOUT: When this bit is set, I2C master will force clock low for an extended period of time(>TIMEOUT) to force all SMB slaves to release the bus 0 = Don't clear the bus on TLow: SEXT/TIMEOUT timeout 1 = Clear the bus on TLow: SEXT/TIMEOUT timeout 14:12 RW 0x0 DEBOUNCE_CNT: Debounce period for SDA and SCL lines 0 = No debounce 1 = 2T 2 = 4T 3 = 6T, etc. Where T is the period of the clk source coming to I2C. Maximum debounce period programmable is 14T. A debounce period of >50ns is desirable RO 0x1 NEW_MASTER_FSM: Maintained for compatibility sake. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 PACKET_MODE_EN: Write 1 to initiate transfer in packet mode. 0 = NOP 1 = GO

I2C Registers Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 SEND: Writing a 1 causes the master to initiate the transaction in normal mode. Values of other bits are not affected when this bit is 1, cleared by hardware. Other bits of the register are masked for writes when this bit is programmed to one. Hence, firmware should first configure all other registers and bits [8:0] of I2C_CNFG register before the bit I2C_CNFG[9] is programmed to Zero. 0 = NOP 1 = GO RW 0x0 NOACK: Enable mode to handle devices that do not generate ACK. 1 - don't look for an ack at the end of the Enable 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 CMD2: Read/Write Command for Slave 2: 1 - Read Transaction; 0 - write Transaction. For a 7-bit slave address, this bit must match with the LSB of address byte for slave 2. Valid only when bit-4 of this register is set. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 CMD1: Read/Write Command for Slave 1: 1 - Read Transaction; 0 - write Transaction. Command for Slave 1: For a 7-bit slave address this bit must match with the LSB of address byte for slave1. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 START: 1 = Yes, a Start byte needs to be sent. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 SLV2: 1 = Enables a two slave transaction 0 = No command for Slave 2 present. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 3:1 RW 0x0 LENGTH: The Number of bytes to be transmitted per transaction 000 = 1byte ... 111 = 8bytes; In a two slave transaction number of bytes should be programmed less than or equal to 011. I2C transfer with Slave-address byte only is not supported in the controller. RW 0x0 A_MOD: Address mode defines whether a 7-bit or a 10-bit slave address is programmed. 1 = 10-bit device address; 0 = 7-bit device address 0 = SEVEN_BIT_DEVICE_ADDRESS 1 = TEN_BIT_DEVICE_ADDRESS I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR0_0

I2C Registers I2C Slave-1 Address. I2C_CMD_ADDR0 is programmed the 7-bit or 10-bit address of slave 1 with which the transaction is intended; Offset: 0x4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 9:0 0x0 ADDR0: In case of 7-Bit mode address is written in the I2C_CMD_ADDR0[7:1] and I2C_CMD_ADDR0[0] indicates the read/write transaction.I2C_CMD_ADDR0[0] bit must match with the I2C_CNFG[6]. In case of 10-Bit mode address is written in I2C_CMD_ADDR0[9:0] and I2C_CNFG[6] indicates the read/write transaction. I2C_I2C_CMD_ADDR1_0 I2C Slave-2 Address. I2C_CMD_ADDR1 is programmed the 7 Bit or 10 Bit address of slave 2 with which the transaction is intended; Offset: 0x8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 9:0 0x0 ADDR1: In case of 7-Bit mode address is written in the I2C_CMD_ADDR0[7:1] and I2C_CMD_ADDR0[0] indicates the read/write transaction.I2C_CMD_ADDR0[0] bit must match with the I2C_CNFG[7]. In case of 10-Bit mode address is written in I2C_CMD_ADDR0[9:0] and I2C_CNFG[7] indicates the read/write transaction. I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA1_0 IC Controller Data 1: Transmit/Receive The four Least Significant Bytes of Data to be Transmitted is loaded into the register when I2C Master is in Write Mode; The four Least Significant Bytes of Data are Read through this register when I2C Master is in Read mode.

I2C Registers Offset: 0xc Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:24 0x0 DATA4: Fourth data byte to be sent/received 23:16 0x0 DATA3: Third data byte to be sent/received 15:8 0x0 DATA2: Second data byte to be sent/received 7:0 0x0 DATA1: This register contains the first data byte to be sent/received. I2C_I2C_CMD_DATA2_0 IC Controller Data 2: Transmit/Receive The four Most Significant Bytes of Data to be Transmitted is loaded into the register when I2C Master is in Write Mode; The four Most Significant Bytes of Data are Read through this register when I2C Master is in Read mode. Offset: 0x10 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:24 0x0 DATA8: Eighth data byte to be sent/received 23:16 0x0 DATA7: Seventh data byte to be sent/received 15:8 0x0 DATA6: Sixth data byte to be sent/received 7:0 0x0 DATA5: This register contains the Fifth data byte to be sent/received. I2C_I2C_STATUS_0

I2C Registers IC Controller Status (Master). I2C_STATUS gives the status of I2C Master operation Offset: 0x1c Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 BUSY: 0 = NOT_BUSY 1 = BUSY 7:4 0x0 CMD2_STAT: Transaction for Slave2 for x byte failed. x is 'h0 to 'ha, all others invalid. 0 = SL2_XFER_SUCCESSFUL 1 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE1 2 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE2 3 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE3 4 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE4 5 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE5 6 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE6 7 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE7 8 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE8 9 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE9 10 = SL2_NOACK_FOR_BYTE10 3:0 0x0 CMD1_STAT: Transaction for Slave1 for x byte failed. x is 'h0 to 'ha, all others invalid. 0 = SL1_XFER_SUCCESSFUL 1 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE1 2 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE2 3 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE3 4 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE4 5 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE5 6 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE6 7 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE7 8 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE8 9 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE9 10 = SL1_NOACK_FOR_BYTE10 I2C_I2C_SL_CNFG_0 IC Controller Configuration (Slave). The register should be programmed when I2C controller is configured as slave. Offset: 0x20 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

I2C Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000004 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000,0000,0000,0000,0100) Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 SLV_XFER_ERR_CLK_STRETCH_EN: This bit is used in FIFO mode only. If a transfer resulted in SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR, enabling this bit makes the Slave to stretch the I2C SCL line after Address cycle and ACK bit of following transfer. This helps Software in cases where it is not ready to attend SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR immediately and wants to stall the Master until that time. Once SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR status is cleared by Software, SCL line will be released by the Slave. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 FIFO_XFER_EN: If this bit is disabled, data is always communicated via I2C_SL_RCVD register. If enabled, it is through FIFOs 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 19:8 RW 0x0 BUFFER_SIZE: Payload size in bytes. RSVD RW 0x0 ACK_LAST_BYTE_VALID: ack the last byte valid(Write-Only) This bit qualifies ACK_LAST_BYTE field 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 ACK_LAST_BYTE: ack the last byte 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 ACK_WITHHOLD_EN: Ack Withhold Feature Enable 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 PKT_MODE_EN: Packet Mode Enable 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 ENABLE_SL: By writing zero to this field, slave can be turned off 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RO 0x1 NEWSL: New Slave 1 - use new slave 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

I2C Registers Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 NACK: Disable Slave Ack. 1 = slave will not ack reception of address or data byte. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE RW 0x0 RESP: Slave response to general call address (zero address) 1 = Enable. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE I2C_I2C_SL_RCVD_0 IC Controller Slave Receive/Transmit Data (Slave) Offset: 0x24 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 7:0 0x0 SL_DATA: Slave Received data I2C_I2C_SL_STATUS_0 IC Controller Slave Status (Slave) Offset: 0x28 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000,0000) Bit R/W Reset Description 14:8 RO 0x0 HW_MSTR_ADR: Hardware master address received via general call addressing. This field is meaningful only if HW_MSTR_INT is set.

I2C Registers Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 HW_MSTR_INT: 1 = Interrupt has been generated by slave Hardware Master Address is received after General Call Address. 1 = Received Hardware Master Address 0 = No event. RW 0x0 REPROG_SL: 1 = Interrupt has been generated by slave By after General Call Address is 0x04. 1 = Reprogram slave address. 0 = No action. RW 0x0 RST_SL: 1 = Interrupt has been generated by slave By after General Call Address is 0x06. 1 = Reset and reprogram slave address. 0 = No action. RW 0x0 END_TRANS: 1 = Interrupt has been generated by slave Transaction completed as indicated by stop/repeat start condition. 1 = Transaction completed. 0 = No transaction occurred or transaction in progress. RW 0x0 SL_IRQ: 1 = Interrupt has been generated by slave 0 = No interrupt generated 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 RCVD: New Transaction Received status 1 = Transaction occurred. 0 = No transaction occurred 0 = NO_TRANSACTION_OCCURED 1 = TRANSACTION_OCCURED RO 0x0 RNW: Slave Transaction status 0 = Write 1 = Read 0 = WRITE 1 = READ RW 0x0 ZA: Zero Address Status 1 = Yes, slave responded 0 = No, slave did not respond 0 = NO_SLAVE_RESPONSE 1 = SLAVE_RESPONSE I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR1_0 IC Controller Slave Address 1 Register (Slave)

I2C Registers Offset: 0x2c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:8 0x0 SL_ADDR1: For a 10-bit slave address, this field is the least significant 8 bits. 7:0 0x0 SL_ADDR0: For a 10-bit slave address, this field is the least significant 8 bits. I2C_I2C_SL_ADDR2_0 IC Controller Slave Address 2 Register (Slave) Offset: 0x30 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,xxxx,x000,xxxx,x000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SELECT_SLAVE: 0 = Use slave addr0 1 = Use slave addr1 10:9 0x0 SL1_ADDR_HI: In 7 bit address mode these bits are don't care; In 10 bit address mode they represent the 2 MSB of the address. 0x0 SL1_VLD: 0 = 7-bit addressing. 0 = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE 1 = TEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE 2:1 0x0 SL_ADDR_HI: In 7-bit address mode these bits are don't care; In 10-bit address mode they represent the 2 MSB of the address. 0x0 VLD: 0 = 7-bit addressing. 1 = 10-bit addressing. 0 = SEVEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE 1 = TEN_BIT_ADDR_MODE I2C_I2C_TLOW_SEXT_0

I2C Registers IC Controller SMBUS timeout thresholds Offset: 0x34 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 RST_SL_ON_TIMEOUT: Reset Slave state machine on time-out 0x0 TLOW_MEXT_EN: Enable TLOW_MEXT counter 0x0 TLOW_SEXT_EN: Enable TLOW_SEXT counter 0x0 TIMEOUT_EN: Enable TIMEOUT counter 23:16 0x0 TLOW_MEXT: Cumulative clock low extend time (master device) accumulated over a byte transfer period in milli-seconds (START to ACK, ACK to ACK, or ACK to STOP). 15:8 0x0 TLOW_SEXT: Cumulative clock low extend time (slave device) accumulated over a complete transfer (START until STOP) 7:0 0x0 TIMEOUT: Clock low timeout period in milli-seconds I2C_I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT_0 IC Slave Controller Delay Count Offset: 0x3c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x0000001e (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0001,1110)

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x1e SL_DELAY_COUNT: The value determines the timing between an address cycle and a subsequent data cycle or two consecutive data cycles on the bus. The I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT is valid only when internal slave is accessed. I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT has to be programmed such that TIMING = T * DLY where T is period of clock source selected for I2c; and DLY is I2C_SL_DELAY_COUNT; TIMING is the desired timing, A value of >= 1250 ns is advisable. I2C_I2C_SL_INT_MASK_0 IC Controller Slave Mask (Slave) Offset: 0x40 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x000000fd (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,1111,11x1) Bit Reset Description 0x1 HW_MSTR_INT: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1 REPROG_SL: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1 RST_SL: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1 END_TRANS: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1 SL_IRQ: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1 RCVD: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1 ZA: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SOURCE_0 IC Controller Slave Source (Slave)

I2C Registers Offset: 0x44 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,00x0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 HW_MSTR_INT: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 REPROG_SL: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RST_SL: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 END_TRANS: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SL_IRQ: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RCVD: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 ZA: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_I2C_SL_INT_SET_0 IC Controller Slave Source (Slave) Offset: 0x48 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,00x0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 HW_MSTR_INT: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 REPROG_SL: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RST_SL: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 END_TRANS: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SL_IRQ: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RCVD: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 ZA: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_I2C_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 Offset: 0x50 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 TX_PACKET: Software writes packets into this register. I2C_I2C_RX_FIFO_0 Header or I2C specific header or data Offset: 0x54 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 RD_DATA: Software Reads data from this register, causes pop I2C_PACKET_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Offset: 0x58 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxx0,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 TRANSFER_COMPLETE: The packet transfer for which last packet is set has been completed 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 23:16 0x0 TRANSFER_PKT_ID: The current packet id for which the transaction is happening on the bus 15:4 0x0 TRANSFER_BYTENUM: RSVD The number of bytes transferred in the current packet 0x0 NOACK_FOR_ADDR: No ack received for the address byte 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 NOACK_FOR_DATA: No ack received for the data byte 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 ARB_LOST: Arbitration lost for the current byte 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 CONTROLLER_BUSY: 1 = Controller is busy 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_FIFO_CONTROL_0 This register is RSVD and not used Offset: 0x5c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

I2C Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:13 0x0 SLV_TX_FIFO_TRIG: Slave Transmit FIFO trigger level 000 = 1 word, DMA trigger is asserted when at least one word empty in the FIFO 001 = 2 word, DMA trigger is asserted when at least two words empty in the FIFO 12:10 0x0 SLV_RX_FIFO_TRIG: Slave Receive FIFO trigger level 000 = 1 word DMA trigger is asserted when at least one word full in the FIFO 001 = 2 word DMA trigger is asserted when at least two word full in the FIFO 0x0 SLV_TX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1= flush the Tx FIFO, cleared after FIFO is flushed. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_RX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1= flush the Rx FIFO, cleared after FIFO is flushed. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 7:5 0x0 TX_FIFO_TRIG: Transmit FIFO trigger level 000 = 1 word, DMA trigger is asserted when at least one word empty in the FIFO 001 = 2 word, DMA trigger is asserted when at least two words empty in the FIFO 4:2 0x0 RX_FIFO_TRIG: Receive FIFO trigger level 000 = 1 word DMA trigger is asserted when at least one word full in the FIFO 001 = 2 word DMA trigger is asserted when at least two word full in the FIFO 0x0 TX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1= flush the Tx FIFO, cleared after FIFO is flushed. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1= flush the Rx FIFO, cleared after FIFO is flushed. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_FIFO_STATUS_0 This register is RSVD and not used Offset: 0x60 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

I2C Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00800080 (0bxxxx,xx0x,1000,0000,xxxx,xxxx,1000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_XFER_ERR_REASON: This bit describes the nature of the packet transfer error. It is meaningful only if PKT_XFER_ERR is set: 0 = Master terminated transaction before it was completed 1 = Master did not terminate transaction when all bytes are transferred 23:20 0x8 SLV_TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT: The number of slots that can be written to the slave Tx FIFO 0000 = tx_fifo full 0001 = 1 slot empty 0010 = 2 slots empty 19:16 0x0 SLV_RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT: The number of slots to be read from the Slave Rx FIFO 0000 = rx_fifo empty 0001 = 1 slot full 0010 = 2 slots full 7:4 0x8 TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT: The number of slots that can be written to the Tx FIFO 0000 = tx_fifo full 0001 = 1 slot empty 0010 = 2 slots empty 3:0 0x0 RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT: The number of slots to be read from the Rx FIFO 0000 = rx_fifo empty 0001 = 1 slot full 0010 = 2 slots full I2C_INTERRUPT_MASK_REGISTER_0 Offset: 0x64 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxx0,0000,0000,xx00,xxxx,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_ACK_WITHHELD_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_RD2WR_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_WR2RD_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_TX_BUFFER_REQ_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_TFIFO_OVF_REQ_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_RFIFO_UNF_REQ_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_RFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BUS_CLEAR_DONE_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TLOW_MEXT_TIMEOUT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TLOW_SEXT_TIMEOUT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TIMEOUT_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TFIFO_OVF_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 RFIFO_UNF_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 NOACK_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 ARB_LOST_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RFIFO_DATA_REQ_INT_EN: 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE I2C_INTERRUPT_STATUS_REGISTER_0 This register indicates the status bit for which the interrupt is set. Offset: 0x68 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxx0,0000,0000,xx00,xxxx,0000,0000,0000) Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 SLV_ACK_WITHHELD: ack is withheld, waiting for Software explicit info about ack. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 SLV_RD2WR: Transaction switching from read to write. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 SLV_WR2RD: Transaction switching from write to read. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR: 0 = Request was successful 1 = Error has occurred during packet transfer 0 = UNSET 1 = SET

I2C Registers Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 SLV_TX_BUFFER_REQ: Slave Tx buffer is full 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED: Slave Rx buffer is full 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 SLV_PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE: Slave packet transfer complete 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 SLV_TFIFO_OVF: slave Tx FIFO overflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 SLV_RFIFO_UNF: slave Rx FIFO underflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RO 0x0 SLV_TFIFO_DATA_REQ: Slave Tx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RO 0x0 SLV_RFIFO_DATA_REQ: Slave Rx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 BUS_CLEAR_DONE: bus clear done status 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 TLOW_MEXT_TIMEOUT: SMBUS mext time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 TLOW_SEXT_TIMEOUT: SMBUS sext time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 TIMEOUT: SMBUS time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE: A packet has been transferred successfully. TRANSFER_PKT_ID filed can be used to know the current byte under transfer. This bit can be masked by the IE field in the i2c specific header 0 = UNSET 1 = SET

I2C Registers Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE: All the packets transferred successfully 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 TFIFO_OVF: Tx FIFO overflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 RFIFO_UNF: Rx FIFO underflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 NOACK: No ACK from slave 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RW 0x0 ARB_LOST: Arbitration lost 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RO 0x0 TFIFO_DATA_REQ: Tx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET RO 0x0 RFIFO_DATA_REQ: Rx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_REGISTER_0 The divisor values (N) must be programmed so that desired scl freq (std/fast/fm+ modes) = ClkSourceFreq/((tlow+thigh+3)*(N+1)) for lower values of N, upto 3 scl freq (std/fast/fm+ modes) = ClkSourceFreq/((tlow+thigh+2)*(N+1)) for higher values of N, above scl freq (HS mode) = ClkSourceFreq/((ths_low+ths_high+4)*(N+1)) for lower values of N, upto 4 scl freq (HS mode) = ClkSourceFreq/((ths_low+ths_high+2)*(N+1)) for higher values of N, above 4 Offset: 0x6c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00190001 (0b0000,0000,0001,1001,0000,0000,0000,0001)

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 31:16 0x19 I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_STD_FAST_MODE: N = divide by n+1 15:0 0x1 I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_HSMODE: N = divide by n+1 I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SOURCE_REGISTER_0 This is a read-only register which returns the AND of Interrupt Status and Interrupt Mask registers. Offset: 0x70 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxx0,0000,0000,xx00,xxxx,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_ACK_WITHHELD: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_RD2WR: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_WR2RD: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR: Error occurred during slave xfer 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_TX_BUFFER_REQ: slave Tx buffer is full 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED: slave Rx buffer is full 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE: slave packet transfer complete 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_TFIFO_OVF: slave Tx FIFO overflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_RFIFO_UNF: slave Rx FIFO underflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_TFIFO_DATA_REQ: slave Tx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_RFIFO_DATA_REQ: slave Rx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 BUS_CLEAR_DONE: bus clear done 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TLOW_MEXT_TIMEOUT: SMBUS mext time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TLOW_SEXT_TIMEOUT: SMBUS sext time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TIMEOUT: SMBUS time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE: packet transferred successfully 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE: All the packets transferred successfully 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TFIFO_OVF: Tx FIFO overflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RFIFO_UNF: Rx FIFO underflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 NOACK: No ACK from slave 0 = UNSET 1 = SET

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 ARB_LOST: Arbitration lost 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TFIFO_DATA_REQ: Tx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RFIFO_DATA_REQ: Rx FIFO data req 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_I2C_INTERRUPT_SET_REGISTER_0 This is a write-only register which can be used to set the interrupt status bit. A write to this register causes the bits in status register to be set if the corresponding bit in write data is 1'b1. Read always returns 'h0. Offset: 0x74 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxx0,0000,0000,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,00xx) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_ACK_WITHHELD: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_RD2WR: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_WR2RD: 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_PKT_XFER_ERR: Error occurred during slave xfer 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_TX_BUFFER_REQ: slave Tx buffer is full 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_RX_BUFFER_FILLED: slave Rx buffer is full 0 = UNSET 1 = SET

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE: slave packet transfer complete 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_TFIFO_OVF: slave Tx FIFO overflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 SLV_RFIFO_UNF: slave Rx FIFO underflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 BUS_CLEAR_DONE: bus clear done 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TLOW_MEXT_TIMEOUT: SMBUS mext time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TLOW_SEXT_TIMEOUT: SMBUS sext time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TIMEOUT: SMBUS time-out 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 PACKET_XFER_COMPLETE: packet transferred successfully 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 ALL_PACKETS_XFER_COMPLETE: All the packets transferred successfully 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 TFIFO_OVF: Tx FIFO overflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RFIFO_UNF: Rx FIFO underflow 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 NOACK: No ACK from slave 0 = UNSET 1 = SET

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 ARB_LOST: Arbitration lost 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_I2C_SLV_TX_PACKET_FIFO_0 Offset: 0x78 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 TX_PACKET: Software writes packets into this register I2C_I2C_SLV_RX_FIFO_0 Header or I2C specific header or data Offset: 0x7c Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 RD_DATA: Software Reads data from this register, causes pop I2C_I2C_SLV_PACKET_STATUS_0 Offset: 0x80 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xx00,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 ACK_WITHHELD: Indicates that ack is withheld for last byte and slave is waiting for host to explicitly command slave to ACK the last byte 0 = Bus is released 1 = ACK is withheld 0x0 TRANSFER_COMPLETE: ALL the packets have been transferred successfully 23:16 0x0 TRANSFER_PKT_ID: The current packet id for which the transaction is happening on the bus 15:0 0x0 TRANSFER_BYTENUM: The number of bytes transferred in the current packet I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CONFIG_0 Offset: 0x84 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00090004 (0bxxxx,xxxx,0000,1001,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x100) Bit Reset Description 23:16 0x9 BC_SCLK_THRESHOLD: Send the clock pulses until this threshold is met 0x1 BC_STOP_COND: 0 = NO_STOP: do not send stop condition at the end of bus clear operation 1 = STOP: send stop condition at the end of the bus clear operation 0x0 BC_TERMINATE: 0 = THRESHOLD: irrespective of SDA release status during BC, terminate the BC only after threshold is reached. 1 = IMMEDIATE: terminate the bus clear operation immediately when SDA is released or threshold count is reached whichever is earlier 0x0 BC_ENABLE: Starts bus clear operation, Hardware auto-clears this bit upon bus clear transaction completion I2C_I2C_BUS_CLEAR_STATUS_0 Offset: 0x88 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 BC_STATUS: 0 = NOT_CLEARED: indicates SDA is not released by slave, its status is still low. 1 = CLEARED: SDA is released I2C_I2C_CONFIG_LOAD_0 Offset: 0x8c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 TIMEOUT_CONFIG_LOAD: This bit loads the timeout configuration from pclk domain to the receive (i2c_slow_clk) domain. Software has to set this bit at the end after doing the required registers configuration for the logic to take the updates. Once the internal update is done, Hardware auto clears this bit. Since the Hardware would be busy with internal update, Software should not write again until this bit is cleared by Hardware. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 SLV_CONFIG_LOAD: This bit loads the slave configuration from pclk domain to the receive (i2c_clk) domain. Software has to set this bit finally after doing the required registers configuration for the slave controller to take updates. Once the internal update is done, Hardware auto clears this bit. Since the Hardware would be busy with internal update, Software should not write again until this bit is cleared by Hardware. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 MSTR_CONFIG_LOAD: This bit loads the master configuration from pclk domain to the receive (i2c_clk) domain. Software has to set this bit finally after doing the required registers configuration like I2C_I2C_CNFG_0 bit fields etc. Once the internal update is done, Hardware auto clears this bit. Since the Hardware would be busy with internal update, Software should not write again until this bit is cleared by Hardware. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE I2C_I2C_CLKEN_OVERRIDE_0 Offset: 0x90 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,00x0)

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description CLK_GATED I2C_BUS_CLEAR_CLKEN_OVR: Override for 2nd-level clock enable for I2C bus clear logic 0 = CLK_GATED 1 = CLK_ALWAYS_ON CLK_GATED I2C_SLV_HIF_CLKEN_OVR: Override for 2nd-level clock enable for I2C slave to host interface logic 0 = CLK_GATED 1 = CLK_ALWAYS_ON CLK_GATED I2C_SLV_CORE_CLKEN_OVR: Override for 2nd-level clock enable for I2C slave core logic 0 = CLK_GATED 1 = CLK_ALWAYS_ON CLK_GATED I2C_MST_CORE_CLKEN_OVR: Override for 2nd-level clock enable for I2C master core logic 0 = CLK_GATED 1 = CLK_ALWAYS_ON I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 Register for Standard/Fast/Fm+ mode timing Offset: 0x94 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000204 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0010,0000,0100) Bit Reset Description 15:8 0x2 THIGH: High period of the SCL clock 7:0 0x4 TLOW: Low period of the SCL clock I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 Register for Standard/Fast/Fm+ mode timing Offset: 0x98 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x04070404 (0b0000,0100,0000,0111,0000,0100,0000,0100)

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 31:24 0x4 TBUF: Bus free time between STOP and START conditions 23:16 0x7 TSU_STO: Set-up time for STOP condition 15:8 0x4 THD_STA: hold time for a (repeated) START condition 7:0 0x4 TSU_STA: set-up time for a Repeated START condition I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_0_0 I2C interface timing register for HS mode transfers Offset: 0x9c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000308 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0011,0000,1000) Bit Reset Description 15:8 0x3 HS_THIGH: High period of the SCL clock 7:0 0x8 HS_TLOW: Low period of the SCL clock I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_1_0 I2C interface timing register for HS mode transfers Offset: 0xa0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x000b0b0b (0bxxxx,xxxx,0000,1011,0000,1011,0000,1011) Bit Reset Description 23:16 0xb HS_TSU_STO: Set-up time for STOP condition 15:8 0xb HS_THD_STA: Hold time for a (repeated) START condition

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 7:0 0xb HS_TSU_STA: Set-up time for a Repeated START condition I2C_I2C_MASTER_RESET_CNTRL_0 I2C Master reset control register Offset: 0xa8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SOFT_RESET: If SOFT_RESET is set to 1, it will reset all internal state of Master logic including FIFOs. But registers configuration is retained. Clear this bit to 0 for normal operation. I2C transfers: Wait 2µs after reset assertion and also after clear, before going for any data transfers. SMBUS transfers where Timeout feature used: Wait 5ms after reset assertion and clear. 0 = CLEARED 1 = ASSERTED I2C_I2C_SLV_RESET_CNTRL_0 I2C Slave reset control register Offset: 0xac Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SOFT_RESET: If SOFT_RESET is set to 1, it will reset all internal state of Slave logic including FIFOs. But registers configuration is retained. Clear this bit to 0 for normal operation. I2C transfers: Wait 2µs after reset assertion and also after clear, before going for any data transfers. SMBUS transfers where Timeout feature used: Wait 5ms after reset assertion and clear. 0 = CLEARED 1 = ASSERTED I2C_MST_PACKET_TRANSFER_CNT_STATUS_0 Offset: 0xb0 Read/Write: RO

I2C Registers Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x0 TRANSFER_BYTENUM: The number of bytes transferred in the current packet I2C_MST_FIFO_CONTROL_0 Offset: 0xb4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,xxxx,x000,0000,xx00) Bit Reset Description 22:16 0x0 TX_FIFO_TRIG: Master Transmit FIFO trigger level. 0000000 = 1 word, trigger is asserted when at least one word empty in the FIFO. 0000001 = 2 words, trigger is asserted when at least two words empty in the FIFO..... 1111111 = 128 words, trigger is asserted when 128 words empty in the FIFO. 10:4 0x0 RX_FIFO_TRIG: Master Receive FIFO trigger level. 0000000 = 1 word, trigger is asserted when at least one word full in the FIFO. 0000001 = 2 words, trigger is asserted when at least two words full in the FIFO...... 1111111 = 128 words, trigger is asserted when 128 words full in the FIFO. 0x0 TX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1 = flush the TX FIFO; bit is auto-cleared by Hardware after FIFO flush is done 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1 = flush the RX FIFO; bit is auto-cleared by Hardware after FIFO flush is done 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_MST_FIFO_STATUS_0 Offset: 0xb8 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N

I2C Registers Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00800000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,1000,0000,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 23:16 0x80 TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT: The number of slots that can be written to the Master Tx FIFO 00000000 = tx_fifo full 00000001 = 1 slot empty 00000010 = 2 slots empty.... 10000000 = 128 slots empty 7:0 0x0 RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT: The number of slots to be read from the Slave Rx FIFO 00000000 = rx_fifo empty 00000001 = 1 slot full 00000010 = 2 slots full .... 10000000 = 128 slots full .... I2C_SLV_PAYLOAD_0 Offset: 0xbc Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x0 BUFFER_SIZE: Payload size in bytes I2C_SLV_FIFO_CONTROL_0 Offset: 0xc0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,xxxx,x000,0000,xx00) Bit Reset Description 22:16 0x0 TX_FIFO_TRIG: Slave Transmit FIFO trigger level. 0000000 = 1 word, trigger is asserted when at least one word empty in the FIFO. 0000001 = 2 words, trigger is asserted when at least two words empty in the FIFO..... 1111111 = 128 words, trigger is asserted when 128 words empty in the FIFO.

I2C Registers Bit Reset Description 10:4 0x0 RX_FIFO_TRIG: Slave Receive FIFO trigger level 0000000 = 1 word, trigger is asserted when at least one word full in the FIFO 0000001 = 2 words, trigger is asserted when at least two words full in the FIFO..... 1111111 = 128 words, trigger is asserted when 128 words full in the FIFO. 0x0 TX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1 = flush the SLAVE TX FIFO; bit will be auto-cleared by Hardware after FIFO flush is done 0 = UNSET 1 = SET 0x0 RX_FIFO_FLUSH: 1 = flush the SLAVE RX FIFO; bit will be auto-cleared by Hardware after FIFO flush is done 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_SLV_FIFO_STATUS_0 Offset: 0xc4 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00800000 (0bxxxx,xxx0,1000,0000,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SLV_XFER_ERR_REASON: This bit describes the nature of the packet transfer error. It is meaningful only if PKT_XFER_ERR is set. 0 = Master terminated transaction before it was completed, 1 = Master did not terminate transaction when all bytes are transferred 23:16 0x80 TX_FIFO_EMPTY_CNT: The number of slots that can be written to the Slave Tx FIFO 00000000 = tx_fifo full 00000001 = 1 slot empty 00000010 = 2 slots empty.... 10000000 = 128 slots empty 7:0 0x0 RX_FIFO_FULL_CNT: The number of slots to be read from the Slave Rx FIFO 00000000 = rx_fifo empty 00000001 = 1 slot full 00000010 = 2 slots full .... 10000000 = 128 slots full .... I2C_I2C_MST_NM_INT_STATUS_0 I2C Master Controller, Normal Mode Status register Offset: 0xc8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N

I2C Registers Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0) Bit Reset Description 0x0 TXN_DONE: Status bit for Master controller transactions done in Normal mode. Sticky bit. If set, write 1 to clear it to zero. 0 = UNSET 1 = SET I2C_I2C_MST_NM_INT_MASK_0 I2C Master Controller, Normal Mode Interrupt Mask register Offset: 0xcc Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx1) Bit Reset Description 0x1 TXN_DONE_INT_EN: Interrupt enable bit for Master controller transactions done in Normal mode. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE I2C_BUS_STATUS_0 This is a ready only register which gives the status of I2C interface Offset: 0xd0 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x0000000X (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx) Bit Reset Description X SCL: Gives the status of SCL (Serial Clock Line) of I2C bus X SDA: Gives the status of SDA (Serial Data Line) of I2C bus X BUS_BUSY: I2C Bus Busy status 0 = FREE 1 = BUSY

I2C Registers I2C_I2C_INTERFACE_TIMING_2_0 Register for Standard/Fast/Fm+ mode timing Offset: 0xd4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 7:0 0x0 THD_DAT: Data hold time in SM/FM/Fm+ speed modes I2C_I2C_HS_INTERFACE_TIMING_2_0 I2C interface timing register for HS mode transfers Offset: 0xd8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 7:0 0x0 HS_THD_DAT: Data hold time in HS mode I2C_I2C_MSTR_DATA_CAPTURE_TIMING_0 Register for I2C Master controller data capturing time. Offset: 0xdc Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0001) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x1 TCAPTURE_DAT: Used to tune the Master Controller Data Capture Period. Shifts the sampling point of SDA line by (Tcpature_dat+1) i2c_clk cycles from SCL rising edge. 0 = This field is not used, SDA line is sampled on SCL rising edge. Program to a value that is less than 3 or I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_STD_FAST_MODE or I2C_CLK_DIVISOR_HSMODE whichever is lower based on speed mode

Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART) I2C_I2C_SLV_DATA_CAPTURE_TIMING_0 Register for I2C Slave controller data capturing time. Offset: 0xe0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000002 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0010) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x2 TCAPTURE_DAT: Used to tune the Slave Controller Data Capture Period. Shifts the sampling point of SDA line by (Tcpature_dat+1) i2c_clk cycles from SCL rising edge. 0 = This field is not used, SDA line is sampled on SCL rising edge. Program to a value that is less than half (1/2) of SCL High time in number of i2c_clk cycles.
