## 10.14 Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
### 10.14.1 Overview
communications link between the processor and on/off-chip serial peripheral devices such as sensors, ADC/DAC devices, and Flash controllers.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) The SPI controller supports both Master and Slave modes of SPI operation on this interface. The SoC embeds five SPI controllers, each of which works independently of others. In the context of the I/O pins and Controller registers, these five SPI controllers are referred to as SPI1, SPI2, SPI3, SPI4, and SPI5.
#### 10.14.1.1 Standard and Compatibility
The Synchronous Serial Communication Interface, (Serial Peripheral Interface bus) works with both Master and Slave Mode. The SPI controller works on the Serial protocol (Serial Peripheral Interface) and has the following compatible features: Master/Slave Clock Polarity and Phase Chip Select Polarity
#### 10.14.1.2 Glossary
Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the SPI chapter. Term Definition Word A 32-bit data in the Tx or Rx FIFO. Packet The fixed-length data that is transmitted or received. All transmitting/receiving must be in Packets. Packet size can 4, 8, 16, or 32 bits for Packed Tx/Rx or 4 ~ 32 bits for Unpacked Tx/Rx Transfer Transmitting (Tx) or Receiving (Rx) of Packets. Transaction A sequence of Packets in Tx or Rx direction. WRITE Writing to the device the SPI controller interfaces with. WRITE operations are Tx operations for the SPI controller. READ Reading from the device the SPI controller interfaces with. READ operations are Rx operations for the SPI controller. DMA DMA operations accomplished using the DMA engines, GPC_DMA or BPMP_DMA, as discussed in the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter.
##### 10.14.1.2.1 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
Address Map Clock Controller and Reset (CAR) General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)

### OCR (Page 13530) ~~~text Technical Reference Manual
Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
The SPI controller supports both Master and Slave modes of SPI operation on this interface. The
SoC embeds five SPI controllers, each of which works independently of others. In the context of
the I/O pins and Controller registers, these five SPI controllers are referred to as SPI1, SPl2, SPI3,
SPI4, and SPI5.
10.14.1.1 Standard and Compatibility
The Synchronous Serial Communication Interface, (Serial Peripheral Interface-bus) works with both
Master and Slave Mode. The SPI controller works on the Serial protocol (Serial Peripheral Interface)
and has the following compatible features:
« Master/Slave
* Clock Polarity and Phase
« Chip Select Polarity
10.14.1.2 Glossary
Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within taescontext of the SPI chapter.
Term Definition
Word A 32-bit data in the Tx or Rx FIFO.
Packet The fixed-length data that is.transmitted or received.
* All transmitting/receiving must be in Packets.
« Packet size can 4, 8.16, or 32 bits for Packed Tx/Rx or 4 ~ 32 bits for Unpacked Tx/Rx
Transfer Transmitting (Tx) or Receiving (Rx) of Packets.
Transaction A sequence of Packets in Tx or Rx direction.
WRITE Writing to the :dévice the SPI controller interfaces with.
= WRITE operations are Tx operations for the SPI controller.
READ Reading from the device the SPI controller interfaces with.
« READ operations are Rx operations for the SPI controller.
DMA DMAvoperations accomplished using the DMA engines, GPC_DMA or BPMP_DMA, as discussed in
the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter.
10.14.1.2. Relevant Chapters in the TRM
« Address Map
" Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
«General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA)
= Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux) ~~~

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
#### 10.14.1.3 Features
Master Mode Operation All transfer modes (Mode 0, Mode 1, Mode 2, Mode 3) supported for both Tx and Rx transactions Slave Mode Operation Slave Tx: Mode 1 and Mode 3 supported Slave Rx: All transfer modes (Mode 0, Mode 1, Mode 2, Mode 3) supported Independent Rx and Tx FIFO FIFO Size: 64 x 32 bits Programmable packet sizes of 4 to 32 bits Packed and Unpacked Mode Four Packed Packet Sizes: Master: 4, 8, 16, 32 bits Slave: 8, 16, 32 bits - - Unpacked Packet Size Master: 4 ~ 32 bits Slave: 8 ~ 32 bits - - PIO or DMA Mode depending on total transfer sizes and packet size PIO Mode: transfer sizes <= 64 words (32-bit) DMA Mode: transfer sizes > 64 words (32-bit); limited to 64 Ki words (32-bit) per transfer Continuous mode Programmable Clock Phase and Polarity Programmable Delay between Consecutive Transfers Chip select (CS) Controllable by Software or Generated by Hardware on Packet Boundaries Maximum 4-chip Support with Programmable CS Polarity for Each Chip Select Maximum Data Rate: 81.6 MHz in Master mode and 51 MHz in Slave mode
### 10.14.2 Functional Description
The SPI Controller works as a Master/Slave on the SPI bus. It has independent Tx and Rx FIFOs of 64 x 32 bits each. Software can program the controller to generate transactions of a required number of packets of specific packet size on the SPI bus, where a transaction is a sequence of packets in either direction. It can be operated in two modes: The PIO Mode requires software to read and write FIFOs for handling data transfers between system memory and FIFO. 1.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) 2. The DMA Mode uses a channel of the GP-DMA controller (outside of SPI) to transfer data between system memory and the FIFOs. Refer to the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter. At the end of each transaction, an Interrupt is generated, if enabled. Software uses Tx and Rx operations in combination with Chip Select (CS) control to generate commands on the SPI bus. The SPI Interface consists of four signals defined in the table below and illustrated in the figure after. Table 10.107 SPI Interface Signals Signal Name Type Description SCK Output Serial Clock CS Output Chip Select/Slave Select Typically active Low; programmable by SPI_COMMAND_0.CS_POL_INACTIVE0. MOSI Output / Bi- directional Master Data Out; Slave Data In MISO Input / Bi-directional Master Data In; Slave Data Out
**Figure 10.152 SPI Controller System Diagram**
Note: Directions of the signals in the above figure vary depending on how the SPI Controller is configured as a Master or Slave. The figure below shows the block diagram of the SPI controller. The color code indicates the clock domains of the blocks and the clock domain crossings (CDCs).

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.153 SPI Controller Block Diagram – Clock Domain Crossings**
#### 10.14.2.1 Transmission Format
Using the MODE field in the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register, software sets one of the four modes in which the SPI controller works. The two bits of the Mode field specify the idle (inactive) state of SCK before the chip select is asserted and the data transmitting/receiving edges of SCK. Mode [1] determines the SCK polarity. If the polarity is "0" (Low), then the SCK signal is "0" (Low) when idle and transitions to "1" (High) when data transfer starts. If the clock polarity is "1" (High), then the SCK signal is "1" (High) when idle and transitions to "0" when data transfer starts. Mode [0] is the SCK phase control bit. If the clock phase is "0," then the receiver latches the data on the first transition of SCK from the idle state. If the clock phase is "1," then the receiver latches the data on the second transition of SCK. Modes supported by the SPI controller are: Master All modes for Tx and Rx Slave Mode 1 and Mode 3 for Tx All modes for Rx

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) The following table defines the four modes for the SPI protocol. Table 10.108 SPI Modes with Clock Polarity and Phase SPI Mode Clock Polarity Clock Phase SCK Inactive Data Latch IN Data Latch OUT Low on positive edges of clock on negative edges of clock Low on negative edges of clock on positive edges of clock High on negative edges of clock on positive edges of clock High on positive edges of clock on negative edges of clock The figure below shows the SPI CS, MOSI, and MISO data lines and SCK for different modes.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.154 SPI Timing of Mode 0, 1, 2, 3**
#### 10.14.2.2 Modes of Operation
##### 10.14.2.2.1 Master and Slave Modes
The SPI controller can be configured to operate as a Master or Slave. A "1" in the M_S bit of the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register puts the SPI controller in Master Mode whereas a "0" puts the controller in Slave Mode. Only in Master Mode, the SPI controller can initiate a transaction.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) In Master Mode, data from the Tx FIFO is transmitted on the MOSI pin, whereas data from the Slave is received on the MISO pin and sent to the Rx FIFO. The Master can simultaneously transmit and receive on MOSI and MISO in Full-Duplex Mode. In Slave mode, once software enables the SPI controller by setting the PIO bit, it waits for the Master to initiate a transaction. Before the transaction begins, the Slave logic continuously polls the CS input. When the Master asserts CS and SCK is transmitted to the Slave, the Slave data is transmitted from the Tx FIFO on MISO and data from MOSI is received in the Rx FIFO. The Slave can also simultaneously transmit and receive on MOSI and MISO in Full-Duplex Mode. Table 10.109 Master Mode Port Configuration Name Direction Description MOSI Bi-directional Output in Full-Duplex/Tx Mode. Input in Both_Enable Rx Mode. MISO Bi-directional Input in Full-Duplex/Rx Mode. Output in Both_Enable Tx Mode. SCK Output Synchronization clock to all Slaves. CS Output Slave select signal to x, where x is any of {0, 1, 2, 3}. Table 10.110 Slave Mode Port Configuration Name Direction Description MISO Bi-directional Output in Full-Duplex/Tx Mode. Input in Both_Enable Rx Mode. MOSI Bi-directional Input in Full-Duplex/Rx Mode. Output in Both_Enable Tx Mode. SCK Input Synchronization clock received from the Master. CS Input Select signal. When the SPI controller is configured to interface with multiple Slaves, the controller has one CS signal for each Slave, up to a maximum of four Slaves. During a transfer, the Master asserts CS specified in the CS_SEL field in SPI_COMMAND_0 Register. At any given time, there can be only one Slave transmitting data. The figure below shows an example of an SPI controller in Slave Mode interfacing in a two-Slave environment with another SPI controller in Master Mode. In the multi- slave environment, all Slaves not selected by the Master through proper CS assertion, tristate their MISO lines.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
**Figure 10.155 Multi-Slave Environment**
##### 10.14.2.2.2 Packed and Unpacked Modes
SPI transactions can be carried out in packets. In particular, multiple packets (i.e., Packed) or a single packet (i.e., Unpacked) can be put in a Tx/Rx FIFO word in transferring. In the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register, the PACKED field specifies whether the packets are packed or unpacked, and the BIT_LENGTH field specifies the packet size, i.e., how many bits in a packet. The Packed and Unpacked Mode are available for both PIO and DMA Mode. Packed Mode (SPI_COMMAND_0.PACKED == 1): If (BIT_LENGTH == 03h), the packet size is 4 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to eight such packets. If (BIT_LENGTH == 07h), the packet size is 8 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to four such packets. If (BIT_LENGTH == 0fh), the packet size is 16 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word can hold up to two such packets. If (BIT_LENGTH == 1fh), the packet size is 32 bits; and each Tx/Rx FIFO word holds exactly one such packet.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) In the Packed Mode, if the packet size is 4 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 8, or if the packet size is 8 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 4, or if the packet size is 16 bits and the number of packets is not a multiple of 2, then the last word in the Tx FIFO contains only the residual number (after dividing by 8, 4, or 2) of packets together with some number (28/24/20/16/12/8/4 if packet size is 4, 24/16/8 if Packet size is 8, or 16 if packet size is 16) of irrelevant random bits originally in the last Tx FIFO word. These irrelevant random bits will be ignored and not transmitted by the controller. In other words, the controller stops transmitting after finishing the last packet (of the not fully packed Tx FIFO word). On the receiver side, receiving also stops after the last packet, thus leaving the remaining number (28/24/20/16/12/8/4 if Packet size is 4, 24/16/8 if packet size is 8, or 16 if packet size is 16) of bits in the last Rx FIFO word untouched or irrelevant for the received packet. Packets are placed in the Tx/Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified. Unpacked Mode (SPI_COMMAND_0.PACKED == 0): Packet size is (SPI_COMMAND_0.BIT_LENGTH + 1) In the Unpacked Mode, there is no packing of packets in the Tx/Rx FIFO word. It uses exactly one Tx/Rx FIFO word for one packet transmitting/receiving regardless of Packet sizes, thus leaving some bits unused. Unpacked Mode is always used for transmitting/receiving of all transfer sizes smaller than 32 bits. Packets are placed in the Tx/Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified. Byte and Bit Endianness A packet can be transmitted or received in Little Endian or Big Endian format at both the Byte and Bit level as defined by the En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit field in the SPI_COMMAND_0 Register. If (En_LE_Byte == 1), the bytes in a Packet are arranged in Big Endian; otherwise, Little Endian. If (En_LE_Bit == 1), the bits in a byte are arranged in Little Endian; otherwise, Big Endian. The table below explains how a 48-bit data ([47:0]) in three 16-bit Packets ({P2[15:0], P1[15:0], P0[15:0]}) is arranged according to the settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit. Table 10.111 Byte/Bit-Endian Arrangement En_LE _Byte En_LE _Bit Byte/Bit-Endian Arrangement P2([8:15],[0:7]), P1([8:15],[0:7]), P0([8:15],[0:7]) P2([15:8],[7:0]), P1([15:8],[7:0]), P0([15:8],[7:0]) P2([0:7],[8:15]), P1([0:7],[8:15]), P0([0:7],[8:15]) P2([7:0],[15:8]), P1([7:0],[15:8]), P0([7:0],[15:8])

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) The following examples explain the effects of En_LE_Byte and En-LE_Bit with Unpacked and Packed Mode. Unpacked Mode Consider a 24-bit data ([23:0]) as three 8-bit Packets ({B2[7:0], B1[7:0], B0[7:0]} for Tx/Rx. Tx: The 24-bit data ([23:0]) is stored in a Tx FIFO word (Column C) according to the settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit, then transmitted on the MOSI line Least Significant Bit first (Column D). Table 10.112 Transmission of Unpacked Data A B C D En_LE _Byte En_LE _Bit Byte/Bit-Endian-Arranged Data in Tx FIFO Word for Tx Data Bit Sequence Tx'd on MOSI Line (Right-most Bit First) {8'bx,[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {8'bx,[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {8'bx,[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {8'bx,[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} {[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} Rx: Bits are received in the same sequence they were transmitted (Column C), then placed in a Rx FIFO word Least-Significant-Bit-justified (Column D) Table 10.113 Receiving of Unpacked Data A B C D En_LE _Byte En_LE _Bit Data Bit Sequence Rx'd from MISO Line (Right-most Bit First) Data Arranged in Rx FIFO Word after Being Rx'd {[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {8'bx,[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {8'bx,[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {8'bx,[0:7],[8:15],[16:23]} {[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} {8'bx,[7:0],[15:8],[23:16]} Packed Mode Consider a 48-bit data ([47:0]) as 3 16-bit Packets ({P2[15:0], P1[15:0], P0[15:0]}) for Tx/Rx. Tx: The 48-bit data ([47:0] is stored in two Tx FIFO words (Column C) according to the settings of En_LE_Byte and En_LE_Bit, then transmitted on the MOSI line Least Significant Bit first (Column D).

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) Table 10.114 Transmission of Packed Data A B C D En_LE _Byte En_LE _Bit Byte/Bit-Endian-Arranged Data in Tx FIFO Words for Tx Data Bit Sequence Tx'd on MOSI Line (Right- most Bit First) {16'bx,[40:47],[32:39]}, {[24:31],[16:23],[8:15], [0:7]} {[40:47],[32:39],[24:31],[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {16'bx,[47:40],[39:32]}, {[31:24],[23:16],[15:8], [7:0]} {[47:40],[39:32],[31:24],[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {16'bx,[32:39],[40:47]}, {[16:23],[24:31],[0:7], [8:15]} {[32:39],[40:47],[16:23],[24:31],[0:7],[8:15]} {16'bx,[39:32],[47:40]}, {[23:16],[31:24],[7:0], [15:8]} {[39:32],[47:40],[23:16],[31:24],[7:0],[15:8]} Rx: Bits are received in the same sequence they were transmitted (Column C), then placed in two Rx FIFO words Least-Significant-Bit-justified (Column D) Table 10.115 Receiving of Packed Data A B C D En_LE _Byte En_LE _Bit Data Bit Sequence Rx'd from MISO Line (Right-most Bit First) Data Arranged in Rx FIFO Words after Being Rx'd {[40:47],[32:39],[24:31],[16:23],[8:15],[0:7]} {16'bx,[40:47],[32:39]}, {[24:31],[16:23],[8:15], [0:7]} {[47:40],[39:32],[31;24],[23:16],[15:8],[7:0]} {16'bx,[47:40],[39:32]}, {[31:24],[23:16],[15:8], [7:0]} {[32:39],[40:47],[16:23],[24:31],[0:7],[8:15]} {16'bx,[32:39],[40:47]}, {[16:23],[24:31],[0:7], [8:15]} {[39:32],[47:40],[23:16],[31:24],[7:0],[15:8]} {16'bx,[39:32],[47:40]}, {[23:16],[31:24],[7:0], [15:8]}
##### 10.14.2.2.3 PIO and DMA Modes
PIO and DMA are the two main operational Modes of the SPI controller. When the number of FIFO words needed to hold the total number of packets for transmitting/receiving is less than or equal to 64 (depth of the Tx/Rx FIFO) the PIO Mode is used. Otherwise, the DMA Mode is used. In other words, the transfer size is limited to 64 (the Tx/Rx FIFO depth) 32-bit words worth of Packed/ Unpacked Packets for the PIO Mode, and 2 16 (64 Ki, as indicated by SPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0.DMA_BLOCK_SIZE) 32-bit words, or 256 KiB worth of Packed/Unpacked Packets for the DMA Mode. For data blocks with sizes larger than the limits (for PIO or DMA Mode), multiple (PIO or DMA) transfers will be used to complete transferring such data blocks as in Continuous Mode. In either PIO or DMA Mode, the SPI controller sends an Interrupt to the processor at the end of each transfer.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) For details of the DMA operations, refer to the General-Purpose Direct Memory Access (GP-DMA) chapter. Continuous Mode Continuous Mode means: In Master Mode, the SPI Controller can transfer data continuously with an external device, unless Interrupted by software. In Slave Mode, the SPI Controller can transfer data continuously with an external device, unless Interrupted by software or an external Master deasserts chip select (CS). In the CS deassert case, the SPI controller can generate an Interrupt based on Interrupt mask bit. This mode can be enabled only in DMA mode, not in PIO mode. The SPI controller disregards the DMA_BLOCK_SIZE Register in this mode. SPI Controller Configured as Master When the SPI Controller is configured as a Master, it can transfer any amount of data unless software disables the SPI Controller by clearing (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit in the SPI_DMA_CTL_0 Register. The SPI Controller generates CS and SCK accordingly throughout the data transfer. Along with the SPI Controller, the GPC DMA also needs to be configured in Continuous Mode. Refer to the General Purpose DMA chapter of this TRM for more information. Errors and Interrupt generation: In Master Continuous Mode, the SPI controller will not generate Tx FIFO Underflow or Rx FIFO Overflow errors. These errors generally occur in Slave mode when the GPC DMA does not write data into the Tx FIFO or does not read data from the Rx FIFO fast enough due to system bandwidth/arbitration issues. In such cases, the SPI Controller keeps waiting for the GPC DMA to write data into the Tx FIFO or read data from the Rx FIFO. During such waiting periods (Idle periods), the SPI Controller stops generating SCK but keeps CS asserted. Once data is available in the Tx FIFO or enough space is available in Rx FIFO, the SPI Controller resumes the data transfer and generates SCK, continuing the CS in the asserted state. Disabling the SPI Controller in Master Continuous Mode: In Master Continuous Mode, the SPI Controller can be disabled only by clearing (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit by software. The SPI Controller will not be disabled in any other way by hardware. Generally, software is recommended to clear (write "1" to clear) the DMA_EN bit when the Controller is in the Idle state. If software clears the DMA_EN bit during the Active state (when a transaction is in process, i.e., CS is asserted and SCK is present), the SPI Controller writes the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in the shift Register) up to the point before disabling the DMA_EN bit into the Rx FIFO and increments the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) SPI Controller Configured as Slave When the SPI Controller is configured as a Slave, it can transfer any amount of data unless: Software disables the SPI Controller by clearing the DMA_EN bit (write "1" to clear) (or) External SPI Master Device deasserts Chip Select. External SPI Master stops sending SCK for SLV_IDLE_COUNT number of clocks.
##### 10.14.2.2.4 Errors and Interrupt Generation
In Slave Continuous Mode, the SPI controller will generate Tx FIFO Underflow or Rx FIFO Overflow errors. These errors generally occur when GPC DMA does not write data into the Tx FIFO or does not read data from Rx FIFO fast enough due to system bandwidth/arbitration issues. In such cases, the SPI Controller generates an error condition, sets the TX_FIFO_UNF or RX_FIFO_OVF bits, and generates an Interrupt. If an Overflow happens, data in the Rx FIFO will not be corrupted.
##### 10.14.2.2.5 Disabling the SPI Controller in Slave Continuous Mode
In Slave Continuous Mode, the SPI Controller can be disabled by software clearing the DMA_EN bit. Generally, software is recommended to clear the DMA_EN bit when the SPI Controller is in the Idle state (the Idle state is defined as when there is no input SCK to the SPI Slave from the External Master device and/or CS is inactive). If software clears the DMA_EN bit during the Active state (the Active state is defined as when there is an input SCK to the SPI Slave from the External Master device and CS is active), the SPI Controller will write the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in shift Register) into the Rx FIFO and increments BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register.
##### 10.14.2.2.6 Disabling the SPI Controller by an External Master Device
When the SPI Controller is configured in Slave Continuous Mode, the External Master can start a data transfer by generating CS and SCK to the Slave SPI. Once the External Master finishes the data transfer (Tx, Rx, or both), it will stop generating SCK and then deassert CS. The SPI Slave treats this as an end of transaction and generates an Interrupt along with clearing the DMA_EN bit. The SPI Controller will write the last received partial/full word (whatever is present in the shift Register before CS is deasserted) into the Rx FIFO and increments the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register. This will be true even if CS is deasserted in an unaligned word boundary (i.e. CS deassertion can happen only at a packet boundary). In Slave Error cases (RX_FIFO_OVF), the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register is incremented first and then the Rx FIFO is written. So when RX_FIFO_OVF happens, the BLK_CNT counter in the SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 Register also shows 1 word extra compared to what is actually present in the Rx FIFO.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) In Non-continuous Mode, the SPI Controller does not generate a CS_DEASSERT Interrupt at the very end when the actual programmed blk_size is done. That time CS is deasserted by the Master normally. Software will get a completion Interrupt in this case. CS_INACTIVE Bit in SPI FIFO Control/Status Register (SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0) In the CS deassert case, the SPI controller can generate Interrupts, provided the Interrupt Mask bit is set Low (Interrupt enabled) by software and (SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0.CS_INACTIVE == 1) indicating CS is deasserted by an External Master. Software needs to clear this bit while addressing the Interrupt. On the other hand, if the Interrupt Mask bit is set High (Interrupt not enabled), SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0.CS_INACTIVE may still be set High by the SPI Controller but will not generate an Interrupt. If the CS deassert Interrupt mask is set Low (i.e., the Interrupt is enabled), the SPI Slave Controller generates an Interrupt when all the data in the Rx shift Register is written into the Rx FIFO. Whenever external master deasserts CS, SPI slave will always set the CS_INACTIVE status bit and generate interrupt based on interrupt mask. Pause is a feature which when set will not terminate the transfer in case of CS deassertion by external master. In both the above cases, CS deassertion Interrupt generation is independent of the Clock provided by the External Master. FRAME_END in SPI FIFO Control/Status Register In Slave Continuous Mode, if SCK is not received for the number of clocks specified in the SLV_IDLE_COUNT field and CS is asserted, then the continuous mode is terminated and this status bit is set. Continuous Mode is terminated if the condition is met. In this case, an Interrupt is generated. Software has two use cases: 1. In Slave Continuous mode, software mainly will use the pause feature (set PAUSE bit to "1"), because the use case is such that there will be continuous audio streaming and it is not desired for the Slave to be stopped based on CS deassert. In Slave non-continuous mode, where the use case is based on variable length data coming in from the external Master, software will use the non-pause feature (enable the CS deassert Interrupt) so that software can read the received chunk of data based on the CS deassert Interrupt with frame_end remaining deasserted. 2. In the Non-Pause case, continuous mode termination can happen with CS deasserted or DMA disabled (DMA_EN = 0).In the Pause case, continuous mode termination can happen only with DMA disable. Until the DMA is disabled, it is the same continuous mode transaction and continues forever until the DMA is disabled.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
#### 10.14.2.3 Error Conditions
When the SPI controller is configured as a Master, the following error scenarios can happen: Tx FIFO Overflow Tx FIFO overflow occurs when the DMA writes into the Tx FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the TX_FIFO_OVF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the TX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Tx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_OVF bit by writing "1" to it. To start a new transaction, software must flush the Tx FIFO by writing "1" to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register. Rx FIFO Overflow Rx FIFO overflow occurs when the DMA writes into the Rx FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the RX_FIFO_OVF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the RX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the RX_FIFO_OVF bit by writing "1" to it. To start a new transaction, software must flush the Rx FIFO by writing "1" to the RX_FIFO_FLUSH bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register. Tx FIFO Underflow Tx FIFO Underflow occurs when the DMA reads from the Tx FIFO when it is empty. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the TX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the TX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_UNF bit by writing "1" to it before a new transaction can start. Rx FIFO Underflow Rx FIFO Underflow occurs when the DMA reads from the Rx FIFO when it is empty. In this case, the SPI controller terminates the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flags the error by setting the RX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Status Register to "1." The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if the RX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK bit in the SPI_INTR_MASK_0 register is turned off (thus, allowing the Interrupt). Software must remove the cause of Rx FIFO Overflow and clear the TX_FIFO_UNF bit by writing "1" to it before a new transaction can start. Note: In Master Mode, all the errors above can happen only when the CPU/GPC_DMA reads/writes an empty/full FIFO. The SPI controller will never write/read a full/empty FIFO. Instead the controller

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) will pause (stops sending clocks to the Slave with chip select being in an active state) whenever the FIFOs are full/empty. When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, the following error scenarios can happen: Tx FIFO Overflow Tx FIFO Overflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller writes into the Tx FIFO when it is full. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/ DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with TX_FIFO_OVF bit in the status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and TX_FIFO_OVF bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and then flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. Rx FIFO Overflow Rx FIFO Overflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller writes into Rx FIFO when it is full in BOTH_EN Mode. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with RX_FIFO_OVF bit in the status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and RX_FIFO_OVF bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/ Status Register. Tx FIFO Underflow Tx FIFO Underflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller reads from Tx FIFO when it is empty. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with the TX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and TX_FIFO_UNF bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. Rx FIFO Underflow Rx FIFO Underflow happens when the CPU/GPC_DMA or the SPI controller reads from the Rx FIFO in BOTH_EN Mode. In this case, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/DMA_EN bit to "0," and flag the error bit along with the RX_FIFO_UNF bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the error bit and RX_FIFO_UNF bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. CS_inactive

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave and CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_n in the SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 Register is set, if an external Master deasserts the chip select in the middle of a transaction, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the PIO/ DMA_EN bit to "0," and sets the CS_INACTIVE bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the CS_INACTIVE bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. It is software's responsibility to read the data that is left out of the Rx FIFO for CS inactive. For example, if the Interrupt trigger is set for four words and external Master has taken the CS off in between the transfer, and at that point of time the Rx FIFO has only two words, it is software's responsibility to read out those two words or flush the FIFO. Frame_End When the SPI controller is configured as a Slave and DMA-continuous and CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_n in the SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 Register is set, if an external Master stops sending clocks for more than Slave_idle_clock_count programmed in the Register, the SPI controller ends the transaction by setting the DMA bit to "0," and sets the FRAME_END bit in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. The SPI controller generates an Interrupt if Interrupts are enabled. Software has to clear the FRAME_END bit along with the Interrupt bit. To start a new transaction, software has to disable the Master from sending clocks and flush the FIFOs by writing to the TX_FIFO_FLUSH/ RX_FIFO_FLUSH bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register. If the Master resumes the clk within "Slave_idle_clock_count", the SPI controller will also pause and resume the transaction whenever ext_clk is available.
#### 10.14.2.4 Programming Guidelines
There are two basic modes of operation: DMA and PIO modes. It is required that software sets up all parameters in the following registers before enabling the SPI_COMMAND_0.PIO bit for any of these modes. SPI_COMMAND_0 SPI_COMMAND2_0 SPI_TIMING_REG1_0 SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0 SPI_DMA_CTL_0 SPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI)
##### 10.14.2.4.1 PIO Mode
This mode is enabled by writing "1" to the PIO bit in the SPI Command1 Register. In this mode, the SPI controller transmits/receives as many packets as configured by software in the SPI Block Size Register. PIO Mode has the same features as DMA Mode. The difference between PIO Mode and DMA Mode is that in PIO Mode, the maximum number of packets that can be transmitted or received is less than or equal to 64.
##### 10.14.2.4.2 DMA Mode
This mode is enabled by writing "1" to the DMA bit in the SPI DMA Control Register. In this mode, the SPI controller transmits or receives the number of packets as indicated by the BLOCK_SIZE field in the SPI Block Size Register. If the PACKED bit is set and BIT_LEN is set to 7, then all FIFO words contain four packets to transfer (transmit or receive). Packets are transferred as per the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte bit configurations (see the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte Modes section), with packet 0 in byte 0 of the FIFO and packet 3 in byte 3 of the FIFO. In Unpacked Mode, if BIT_LEN is set to N, each packet will consist of (N + 1) bits. These bits will be transmitted/received in the Tx FIFO/Rx FIFO as per the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte bit configurations (see the En_LE_Bit and En_LE_Byte Modes section). Any remaining bits in the FIFO will be ignored by the hardware. The maximum packet length is 32, which can be selected by setting BIT_LEN to "31". In this case, all data bits in the FIFO contain valid packet data. A DMA request will be generated to GPC_DMA in this mode depending on the setting of Tx_TRIG and Rx_TRIG. If transmits are enabled, setting Tx_TRIG to "00" generates a Tx DMA request whenever the Tx FIFO has one word of space available (if not full). Setting Tx_TRIG to "01" generates a Tx DMA request whenever the Tx FIFO has four words of space available. If receives are enabled, setting Rx_TRIG to "00" will generate an Rx DMA request whenever the Rx FIFO has one word of data available (is not empty). Setting Rx_TRIG to "01" generates an Rx DMA request whenever the Rx FIFO has four words of data available.
##### 10.14.2.4.3 Interrupt Generation
The SPI controller generates an Interrupt to the processor at the end of a transfer in PIO Mode or when an error is detected in PIO or DMA Mode. An Interrupt is generated whenever RDY or one of the FIFO status bits in the SPI FIFO Control/ Status Register is set by the hardware. During transmits, when the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, if software/GPC DMA cannot fill the transmit FIFO fast enough, hardware will set the TX_FIFO_UNF bit and an Underflow condition

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) is generated. If software tries to write to a full Tx FIFO, hardware sets the TX_FIFO_OVF bit as an indication that software attempted to Overflow the Tx FIFO. Hardware makes sure that the Overflowing data is never written to the Tx FIFO. During receives, when the SPI controller is configured as a Slave, if software/GPC DMA cannot read the receive FIFO fast enough, hardware will set the RX_FIFO_OVF bit and an Overflow condition is generated. However, if software tries to read from an empty Rx FIFO, hardware sets the RXF_UNF bit as an indication that software attempted to Underflow the Rx FIFO. The Interrupt can be cleared by writing a "1" to the source of the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of RDY, then writing a "1" to the RDY bit clears the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of TX_FIFO_OVF, then writing a "1" to the TXF_OVF bit clears the Interrupt. If the Interrupt is generated by assertion of RX_FIFO_UNF, then writing a "1" to RXF_UNF bit clears the Interrupt. Guideline for DMA use cases: In DMA Mode, if Interrupts are enabled, the SPI software driver has to deal with three Interrupts: one from the SPI controller and two from the Tx and Rx GPC DMA channels. This might make it complicated for the driver and also stresses the system. In such cases, software can use the Rx DMA Interrupt as the final one at which point all hardware activities can be assumed to be complete. But, in variable transfer lengths (continuous mode), software has to rely on the controller's Interrupts.
##### 10.14.2.4.4 Clock Initialization and Control
The SPI controller runs at 50 MHz at its interface to external SPI devices. The internal SPI controller clock (spi_clk) should run at the same frequency as the outgoing Interface Clock (SCK_Out) in Master Mode. In Slave Mode, however, the internal SPI interface clock frequency has to be 50% greater than the external clock (SCK_in). Note: The ratio between the Slave core clock and the Slave interface clock must be maintained at 1.5x. For example if the Slave interface clock is running at 10 MHz, the Slave core clock must not be less than 10x 1.5 MHz. Controller Enable The SPI controller can be enabled in two ways: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_0.CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3. Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_SET_0.SET_CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3. Correspondingly, to disable the SPI controller: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_0.CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 0), where i = 1, 2, 3.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SPI<i>_CLR_0.CLR_CLK_ENB_SPI<i> = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3. In addition, the SPI controller can select its clock source with proper setup: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SPI<i>_0.SPI<i>_CLK_SRC = n), where i = 1, 2, 3, and n = 0, 6, 7. The selected clock is further divided by a factor m set by the following: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SPI<i>_0.SPI<i>_CLK_DIVISOR = (2m-2)), where i = 1, 2, 3. See the Clock Controller and Reset chapter for more information on controller enable and clock configuration. Controller Reset The SPI controller can be reset in two different ways: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_0.SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3. Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_SET_0.SET_SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3. Correspondingly, to bring the SPI controller out of Reset mode: Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_0.SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 0), where i = 1, 2, 3. Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_SPI<i>_CLR_0.CLR_SWR_SPI<i>_RST = 1), where i = 1, 2, 3. See the Reset chapter for more information on SPI controller reset.
##### 10.14.2.4.5 Slave Mode GPIO Synchronization
Because SPI does not support flow control, the GPIO is required to have the proper communication to avoid any clock loss from the Master. GPIO can be used in the following way for proper synchronization: SPI Slave client software writes to the Config Registers of the SPI controller and make the SPI Slave ready. After that, the Slave client software toggles GPIO to inform the Master that the Slave is ready. Then the SPI Master sends SCK to the Slave device. If there is no GPIO to tell the Master that the Slave is ready, there is a chance to lose clock/data.

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) Guidelines This section provides guidelines for programming the SPI controller: Program all the required Register fields (no particular order is required except for the PIO/ DMA bit, which has to be programmed last): Clock Mode Packed/Unpacked Mode Tx_EN/Rx_EN BOTH_EN_BIT En_LE_Bit/En_LE_Byte BIT_LEN and BLOCK_SIZE values CS_SW_HW (software based or hardware based) - - If CS_SW_HW is set, the value on CS_SW_VAL will be driven out. When CS hardware is used program the setup and hold values in the CS Timing Register. Program the DMA Trig values appropriately, if DMA Mode is used Enable Interrupts if PIO Mode is used Program PIO or DMA to indicate the start of transfer. Once the software enables PIO/DMA, no required bits can be changed until the end of transfer except for PIO/DMA bit. Clearing the PIO/DMA bit ends the transaction. In case the SPI controller is configured to Receive Mode and software clears the PIO/DMA bit, then the partial data which the controller received until then will be written into the FIFO. This is true both for Master and Slave. In Slave Mode after PIO or DMA is set, hardware first waits for the CS to go Low by one of the four Masters. Then on reception of SCK, transfer begins. If CS or SCK is removed by the Master in the middle of a transfer, software must terminate the transaction by clearing the PIO/DMA bit. In case of Rx, hardware then writes the last received packet (incomplete packet) to the Rx FIFO. If software does not clear the PIO/DMA bit, the SPI controller will keep waiting for the SCK from the Master. If SCK resumes later, the transaction continues from where it paused earlier. If any error conditions occur, hardware will set the corresponding status bits in the SPI FIFO Control/Status Register and stop the transfer. If IE is enabled, an Interrupt is generated. Software has to clear the source of the Interrupt by writing a "1" to it, after the completion of ISR. Special Guidelines for Slave Mode Software should not program the controller Register when the interface clock is toggling. Software can disable the external clock input before programming the Registers and then re-enable it once all the Registers bits are programmed. One bit was added to the SPI controller (EXT_CLK_EN in Register SPI_MISC_0) to enable external Master clock. Software is required to enable this bit after all other Slave programming is done (after PIO/DMA bit is set). This bit works like a GATE for the external master clock.

SPI Registers Software should not configure Slave Registers or apply reset when external Master clock is toggling. If needed, software should GATE the clock by writing "0" to this bit and enable back when configuration or reset is done. For a completely successful transfer, the Master starts the actual transfer (enable both CLK and CS) after at least five cycles after EXT_CLK_EN is enabled in the Slave. In all other scenarios where the Master started communication to Slave and EXT_CLK_EN is not enabled in advance, you may see data corruption. Guidelines for Transferring Data with GPC-DMA When the external device stops sending data after a (unknown) logical boundary, software programs GPCDMA for the maximum possible data transfer size based on the use case. SPI is programmed for 64B/16W Rx mode as trigger level. GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MMIO burst size. GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MC burst size (default value is in the specification, so there is no need to program explicitly). SPI generates an Interrupt to the CPU when all the packets are written to Rx FIFO (for Rx transfers) or all packets are read from Tx FIFO to send out (for Tx transfers). Based on this Interrupt, the software waits until the ongoing DMA transfer is complete by checking (RXFIFO_COUNT < BURST) or (DMAREQ_RX == Low) before disabling the DMA. If SPI has residual data in the buffer, the software reads it via PIO mode.
##### 10.14.2.4.6 Programming Trimmers
The three programmable trimmers in the SPI controller are used only in Master Mode: SPI-Tx trimmer This trimmer is used in Master Tx mode to adjust/center the outgoing data with respect to the outgoing clock. SPI-Rx trimmer This trimmer is used in Master Rx mode to delay the loopback clock to the Rx shift Registers. This trimmer is used to adjust the Master SCK with respect to the SPI Slave device's Tx data.
### 10.14.3 SPI Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.

### OCR (Page 13551) ~~~text Technical Reference Manual
SPI Registers
« Software should not configure Slave Registers or apply reset when external Master.clock is
toggling. If needed, software should GATE the clock by writing "0" to this bit and enable back
when configuration or reset is done.
« For a completely successful transfer, the Master starts the actual transfer (enable both CLK
and CS) after at least five cycles after EXT_CLK_EN is enabled in the Slave.
« In all other scenarios where the Master started communication to Slave and/EXT_CLK_EN is
not enabled in advance, you may see data corruption.
Guidelines for Transferring Data with GPC-DMA
When the external device stops sending data after a (unknown) logi¢aNboundary, software
programs GPCDMA for the maximum possible data transfer size baSed on the use case.
« SPI is programmed for 64B/16W Rx mode as trigger level.
«= GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MMIO burst size.
= GPC-DMA channel is programmed for 64B (16 Words) MC burst size (default value is in the
specification, so there is no need to program explicitly).
« SPI generates an Interrupt to the CPU when all thé_packets are written to Rx FIFO (for Rx
transfers) or all packets are read from Tx FIFO/to-send out (for Tx transfers).
« Based on this Interrupt, the software waits,until the ongoing DMA transfer is complete by
checking (RXFIFO_COUNT < BURST) or (DMAREQ_RX == Low) before disabling the DMA.
« If SPI has residual data in the buffer, the-Software reads it via PIO mode.
10.14.2.4.6 Programming Trimmers
The three programmable trimmers inthe SPI controller are used only in Master Mode:
* SPI-Tx trimmer
This trimmer is used in\Master Tx mode to adjust/center the outgoing data with respect to
the outgoing clock.
* SPI-Rx trimmer
This trimmer_is Used in Master Rx mode to delay the loopback clock to the Rx shift
Registers.This trimmer is used to adjust the Master SCK with respect to the SPI Slave
device'sTx data.
10.14.3SPI Registers
Refer to “Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well
as recommendations for accessing registers. ~~~

SPI Registers There are three sets of the SPI controller registers, one for each SPI controller in the SoC. The register descriptions below give the offset of each register within the SPI controller's address range. The Base Addresses of the registers in these three SPI controllers are specified in the Address Map section of the TRM. SPI_COMMAND_0 Programming sequence for basic data transmission. After the module-initialization (reset and clock programming), program the corresponding bits of the following registers, preferably in the same sequence: For PIO Mode: COMMAND: Set the type of transfer i.e., receive (bit 12), transmit (bit 11) COMMAND: Set the bit_length (bits [4:0]), number of words (bits [9:5]), mode (mode 0, mode 1, mode 2 and mode 3) as below: Mode 0 --> 00 // Clock is positive polarity and the data is latched-in on the positive edge of SCK. Mode 1 --> 01 // Clock is positive polarity and the data is latched-in on the negative edge of SCK. Mode 2 --> 10 // Clock is negative polarity and the data is latched-in on the negative edge of SCK. Mode 3 --> 11 // Clock is negative polarity and the data is latched-in on the positive edge of SCK. TX_FIFO: Write data into TXFIFO COMMAND: Enable the PIO Bit (bit 31). For DMA mode: COMMAND: Set the type of transfer i.e., receive (bit 12), transmit (bit 11) COMMAND: Set the bit_length (bits [4:0]), and mode as described above. Note that the bit length to be set accordingly when packed mode (bit 5) is set in the COMMAND register. Allowed bit_lengths in Packed Mode: BIT_LENGTH 0x03, 0x07, 0x0f, 0x1f DMA_CTL: Set the DMA_BLOCK_SIZE (bits [15:0]), RX_TRIG (bits [20:19]), TX_TRIG (bits [16:15]) After setting all the parameters set DMA_EN(bit 31) to 1. The DMA request signals to the APBDMA controller are enabled by the spi COMMAND.Tx_EN and Rx_EN bits. Always program the DMA channels first. Enable the COMMAND.Tx_EN and Rx_EN bits last. SPI Sub Block Command Register

SPI Registers Offset: 0x0 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x43d00000 (0b0100,0011,1101,0000,0000,0xxx,x000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 PIO: Program 1 after all the other bits in the COMMAND2 and COMMAND are programmed to start the transfer. Hardware clears this bit automatically after the transfer is done. Clearing of the bit by Software will stop the Shifter and latch the partial data into buffer. 0 = STOP 1 = PIO 0x1 M_S: 1 = Master Mode (internal Clock) 0 = Slave Mode (external Clock) 0 = SLAVE 1 = MASTER 29:28 0x0 MODE: 11 = Mode3, 10 = Mode2, 01 = Mode1, 00 = Mode0 (def); When SPI is Master All four Modes are supported. When SPI is Slave Transmit supports Only Mode1 and Mode3 are supported. In Slave Receive all the Modes are supported. 0 = Mode0 1 = Mode1 2 = Mode2 3 = Mode3 27:26 0x0 CS_SEL: 11 = chip select3, 10 = chip select2, 01 = chip select1, 00 = chip select0 (def) 0 = CS0 1 = CS1 2 = CS2 3 = CS3 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE3: In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value which is connected to CS3 needs to be programmed. 1 = CS3 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS3 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE2: In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value which is connected to CS2 needs to be programmed. 1 = CS2 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS2 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE1: In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value which is connected to CS1 needs to be programmed. 1 = CS1 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS1 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH

SPI Registers Bit Reset Description 0x1 CS_POL_INACTIVE0: In Master or Slave Mode, the inactive value of external devices CS value which is connected to CS0 needs to be programmed 1 = CS0 Inactive value of External device is high 0 = CS0 Inactive value of External device is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 0x0 CS_SW_HW: Software control of SPI_CS signal in Master Mode. In Slave Mode this bit need not be programmed. 1 = CS controlled by software 0 = CS controlled by hardware 0 = HARDWARE 1 = SOFTWARE 0x1 CS_SW_VAL: When CS is controlled by Software this value is driven onto the selected CS line. 1 = CS is high 0 = CS is low 0 = LOW 1 = HIGH 19:18 0x0 IDLE_SDA: 11 = Pull High, 10 = Pull Low, 01 = Driven High, 00 = Driven Low 0 = DRIVE_LOW 1 = DRIVE_HIGH 2 = PULL_LOW 3 = PULL_HIGH 0x0 BIDIR: 1 = bi directional mode. 0 = Normal mode 0 = NORMAL 1 = BIDIR 0x0 En_LE_Bit: 1 = Enable Little Endian Bit. 0 = Disable Little Endian Bit 0 = LAST 1 = FIRST 0x0 En_LE_Byte: 1 = Enable Little Endian Byte. 0 = Disable Little Endian Byte 0 = LAST 1 = FIRST 0x0 BOTH_EN_BIT: 1 = both lines transmit/receive. 0 = one line transmit and other receive 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 BOTH_EN_BYTE: 1 = both lines transmit/receive. 0 = one line transmit and other receive 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 Rx_EN: Receive enable 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

SPI Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 Tx_EN: Transmit enable 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CS_GPIO: This bit is used to control the outgoing CS lines. It can be used to mask the CS lines driven from controller. Controller will always drive CS_POL_INACTIVE* value to CS lines if this bit is set. 0 = Controller will drive CS lines based on CS_SW_HW (normal operation). 1 = Controller will drive CS_POL_INACTIVE* value. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 PACKED: Packed mode enable bit. 1 = Packed mode is enabled. This is only valid if BIT_LENGTH in COMMAND register is set to 3, 7, 15, or 31. When enabled, all 32-bits of data in the FIFO contains valid data packets of either 4-bit, 8-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit length. 0 = Packed mode is disabled. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 4:0 0x0 BIT_LENGTH: 31 = Thirty Two bit Transfers (Max) SPI_COMMAND2_0 Offset: 0x4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 11:6 0x0 Tx_Clk_TAP_DELAY: Delays the clock going out to the external device with these tap values. Useful only in Master Mode. 5:0 0x0 Rx_Clk_TAP_DELAY: For master mode, it uses the tap values to delay the internal Rx clock, which is a loopback from Tx Outbound clock (before Tx Trimmer) For slave mode, it uses the tap values to delay the clock coming in from the external device (master) SPI_TIMING_REG1_0 Offset: 0x8 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N

SPI Registers Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:28 0x0 CS_SETUP_3: number of cycles for CS-3 Setup 27:24 0x0 CS_HOLD_3: number of cycles for CS-3 Hold 23:20 0x0 CS_SETUP_2: number of cycles for CS-2 Setup 19:16 0x0 CS_HOLD_2: number of cycles for CS-2 Hold 15:12 0x0 CS_SETUP_1: number of cycles for CS-1 Setup 11:8 0x0 CS_HOLD_1: number of cycles for CS-1 Hold 7:4 0x0 CS_SETUP_0: number of cycles for CS-0 Setup 3:0 0x0 CS_HOLD_0: number of cycles for CS-0 Hold SPI_TIMING_REG2_0 Offset: 0xc Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x20202020 (0bxx10,0000,xx10,0000,xx10,0000,xx10,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x1 CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_3: Specifies if CS stays active in between two packets on CS-3 1 = CS active between two packets 0 = CS inactive between two packets 28:24 0x0 CYCLES_BETWEEN_PACKETS_3: Number of cycles in between packets for CS-3 0x1 CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_2: Specifies if CS stays active in between two packets on CS-2 1 = CS active between two packets 0 = CS inactive between two packets 20:16 0x0 CYCLES_BETWEEN_PACKETS_2: Number of cycles in between packets for CS-2

SPI Registers Bit Reset Description 0x1 CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_1: Specifies if CS stays active in between two packets on CS-1 1 = CS active between two packets 0 = CS inactive between two packets 12:8 0x0 CYCLES_BETWEEN_PACKETS_1: number of cycles in between packets for CS-1 0x1 CS_ACTIVE_BETWEEN_PACKETS_0: Specifies if CS stays active in between two packets on CS-0 1 = CS active between two packets 0 = CS inactive between two packets 4:0 0x0 CYCLES_BETWEEN_PACKETS_0: Number of cycles in between packets for CS-0 SPI_TRANSFER_STATUS_0 . Offset: 0x10 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00ff0000 (0bx0xx,xxxx,1111,1111,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 RDY: Ready bit. This bit is set to 1 at the end of every transfer and an interrupt is also generated if the corresponding interrupt enable is set in PIO/DMA Mode. Software writes a 1 to clear it. The interrupt is also cleared when this bit is cleared. 0 = NOT_READY 1 = READY 23:16 RW 0xff SLV_IDLE_CNT: In Slave Continuous Mode if Sclk is not received for this number of cycles then the continuous mode is terminated and the status bit FRAME_END is set. 15:0 RO 0x0 BLK_CNT: Counts the number of Packets in a transaction (Tx or Rx) DMA/ PIO Mode. SPI_FIFO_STATUS_0 Offset: 0x14 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00400005 (0b0000,0000,0100,0000,00xx,xx00,0000,0101)

SPI Registers Bit R/W Reset Description RW 0x0 CS_INACTIVE: 1 = CS is de-asserted by external Master in-between a transaction. Interrupt is generated in this case. RW 0x0 FRAME_END: 1 = External clock is absent abruptly in-between a transaction. 29:23 RO 0x0 RX_FIFO_FULL_COUNT: Indicates the number of full slots in the receive FIFO 22:16 RO 0x40 TX_FIFO_EMPTY_COUNT: Indicates the number of empty slots in the transmit FIFO RW 0x0 RX_FIFO_FLUSH: Flush the RX FIFO 0 = NOP 1 = FLUSH RW 0x0 TX_FIFO_FLUSH: Flush the TX FIFO 0 = NOP 1 = FLUSH RW 0x0 CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT_INTR: Relevant only in case of Slave_RX_Continuous_Pause mode. 1 = Means there is at least one valid entry in CS Boundary Status FIFO. The valid entry is pushed into status FIFO when CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT counter expires. RW 0x0 ERR: Will be set to 1 by Hardware when Errors such as Underflow/ overflow occurs. Write 1 to clear the flag. 0 = OK 1 = ERROR RW 0x0 TX_FIFO_OVF: TX FIFO Overflow 0 = OK 1 = ERROR RW 0x0 TX_FIFO_UNF: TX FIFO Underflow 0 = OK 1 = ERROR RW 0x0 RX_FIFO_OVF: RX FIFO Overflow 0 = OK 1 = ERROR RW 0x0 RX_FIFO_UNF: RX FIFO Underflow 0 = OK 1 = ERROR RO 0x0 TX_FIFO_FULL: TX FIFO Full 0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL

SPI Registers Bit R/W Reset Description RO 0x1 TX_FIFO_EMPTY: TX FIFO Empty 0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY RO 0x0 RX_FIFO_FULL: RX FIFO Full 0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL RO 0x1 RX_FIFO_EMPTY: RX FIFO Empty 0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY SPI_TX_DATA_0 Offset: 0x18 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 Tx_BUFFER SPI_RX_DATA_0 Offset: 0x1c Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 Rx_BUFFER SPI_DMA_CTL_0 Offset: 0x20 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

SPI Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b000x,xxxx,xxx0,0xx0,0xxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx) Bit Reset Description 0x0 DMA_EN: 1 = DMA mode is enabled, 0 = DMA disabled 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CONT: 1 = continuous mode is enabled, 0 = continuous mode disabled 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 PAUSE: This bit is mainly to be used in Slave Rx continuous mode or variable length receive with CS de-assert feature. 1 = Pause feature is enabled which means that CS de-assertion does not stop the controller and it will start receiving data again when CS comes back. 0 = Pause feature is disabled which means that CS de-assertion stops the controller. Software will have to re-enable the controller to start receiving the data. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 20:19 0x0 RX_TRIG: Receive FIFO trigger level. 00: 1 word. DMA trigger is asserted whenever there is at least one word in the Rx FIFO. 01: 4 word. DMA trigger is asserted when there are at least four words in the Rx FIFO. 10: 8 word. DMA trigger is asserted when there are at least eight words in the Rx FIFO. 11: 16 word. DMA trigger is asserted when there are at least 16 words in the Rx FIFO. 0 = TRIG1 1 = TRIG4 2 = TRIG8 3 = TRIG16 16:15 0x0 TX_TRIG: Transmit FIFO trigger level. 00: 1 word. DMA trigger is asserted whenever there is space for at least one word in the Tx FIFO. 01: 4 word. DMA trigger is asserted when there is space for at least four words in the Tx FIFO. 10: 8 word. DMA trigger is asserted when there is space for at least eight words in the Tx FIFO. 11: 16 word. DMA trigger is asserted when there is space for at least 16 words in the Tx FIFO. 0 = TRIG1 1 = TRIG4 2 = TRIG8 3 = TRIG16 SPI_DMA_BLK_SIZE_0 Offset: 0x24 Read/Write: R/W

SPI Registers Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x0 DMA_BLOCK_SIZE: N = N+1 packets SPI_TX_FIFO_0 SPI Sub Block TX FIFO Buffer Register Offset: 0x108 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 TX_FIFO_REGISTER SPI_RX_FIFO_0 SPI Sub Block RX FIFO Buffer Register Offset: 0x188 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 RX_FIFO_REGISTER SPI_INTR_MASK_0 Offset: 0x18c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

SPI Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,000x,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx0x,xxxx,xxxx) Bit Reset Description 0x0 CS_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for CS de-assert in Slave Mode. 1 = Disable interrupt generation if CS is de-asserted in the middle of transaction in Slave mode. 0 = Enable interrupt generation if CS is de-asserted in the middle of transaction in Slave mode. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 FRAME_END_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for Frame End in Slave Mode. 1 = Disable interrupt generation if Frame End is set in the middle of transaction in Slave mode. 0 = Enable interrupt generation if Frame End is set in the middle of transaction in Slave mode. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RDY_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for RDY. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when RDY bit is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when RDY bit is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for TX_FIFO_OVF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for TX_FIFO_UNF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when TX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RX_FIFO_OVF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for RX_FIFO_OVF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_OVF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RX_FIFO_UNF_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for RX_FIFO_UNF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when RX_FIFO_UNF is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

SPI Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT_INTR_MASK: Interrupt enable mask bit for RX_FIFO_UNF. 1 = Disable interrupt generation when CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT_INTR is asserted. 0 = Enable interrupt generation when CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT_INTR is asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE SPI_SPARE_CTLR_0 Offset: 0x190 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x0fff0000 (0b0000,1111,1111,1111,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:24 0xf SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE4 23:16 0xff SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE3 15:8 0x0 SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE2: Need to Program bits 8, 9, and 10 along with Rx_Clk_TAP_DELAY in COMMAND2 Register to adjust clock delay on internal registers. Useful only in Master Mode. 7:0 0x0 SPARE_CONTROL_REGISTER_BYTE1 SPI_MISC_0 Offset: 0x194 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x80000000 (0b10xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx) PROD: 0x00000000 (0b0xxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx) Bit Reset PROD Description 0x1 0x0 CLKEN_OVERRIDE: Override for spi_clk. Can be used to bypass the SLCG incase of issues. By default SLCG is not enabled. Software should turn on it by writing this bit to 0. 0: spi_clk is gated 1: spi_clk is not gated

SPI Registers Bit Reset PROD Description 0x0 _NONE_ EXT_CLK_EN: This bit is used to gate the external master clk. In multi slave environment where master clock is connected to all slave, this clock is running even though master is communicating to other slave. Software should enable this once controller is out of reset and all the configuration is done which means slave is ready to receive data. During this time, if any valid data comes in, that will be lost. 0: ext_clk is gated. 1: ext_clk is not gated. SPI_FATAL_INTR_EN_0 Offset: 0x198 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b00x0,000x,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx0x,xxxx,xxxx) Bit Reset Description 0x0 CS_FATAL_INTR_EN: Fatal Interrupt enable bit for CS de-assert in Slave Mode. 1 = fatal_intr line will be asserted if CS_INACTIVE bit is set 1 in FIFO_STATUS Register. 0 = fatal_intr line will not be asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 FRAME_END_FATAL_INTR_EN: Fatal Interrupt enable bit for FRAME_END. 1 = fatal_intr line will be asserted if FRAME_END bit is set 1 in FIFO_STATUS Register. 0 = fatal_intr line will not be asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TX_FIFO_OVF_FATAL_INTR_EN: Fatal Interrupt enable bit for TX_FIFO_OVF. 1 = fatal_intr line will be asserted if TX_FIFO_OVF bit is set 1 in FIFO_STATUS Register. 0 = fatal_intr line will not be asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TX_FIFO_UNF_FATAL_INTR_EN: Fatal Interrupt enable bit for TX_FIFO_UNF. 1 = fatal_intr line will be asserted if TX_FIFO_UNF bit is set 1 in FIFO_STATUS Register. 0 = fatal_intr line will not be asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

SPI Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 RX_FIFO_OVF_FATAL_INTR_EN: Fatal Interrupt enable bit for RX_FIFO_OVF. 1 = fatal_intr line will be asserted if RX_FIFO_OVF bit is set 1 in FIFO_STATUS Register. 0 = fatal_intr line will not be asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RX_FIFO_UNF_FATAL_INTR_EN: Fatal Interrupt enable bit for RX_FIFO_UNF. 1 = fatal_intr line will be asserted if RX_FIFO_UNF bit is set 1 in FIFO_STATUS Register. 0 = fatal_intr line will not be asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT_FATAL_INTR_EN: Fatal Interrupt enable bit for CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT. 1 = fatal_intr line will be asserted if CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT_INTR bit is set 1 in FIFO_STATUS Register. 0 = fatal_intr line will not be asserted. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE SPI_CS_BOUNDARY_TIMEOUT_0 SPI slave Rx continuous pause mode timeout Register Offset: 0x19c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:0 0x0 TIMEOUT_VALUE: This timeout value is used only in slave Rx continuous pause mode. This timeout counter starts on every CS de-assert and resets on next CS assert. On timeout expiry, controller pushes an entry for one (or more) CS boundary(s) into CS_BOUNDARY_STATUS_FIFO. On timeout expiry, controller starts padding (dummy bytes) if data into main RX_FIFO is unaligned to dma_burst_size (which is always 16 in this case) SPI_TIMEOUT_BOUNDARY_STATUS_0 SPI slave Rx continuous pause mode timeout boundary status register Offset: 0x1a0 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N

SPI Registers Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 31:28 0x0 PADDED_BYTES: Indicates number of padded bytes for current timeout boundary 27:0 0x0 NUM_OF_PACKETS: Indicated number of packets for current timeout boundary SPI_TIMEOUT_BOUNDARY_FIFO_STATUS_0 SPI Slave Rx Continuous pause mode CS boundary FIFO status register Offset: 0x1a4 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,xxxx,xxx0,xxxx,0001) Bit R/W Reset Description 22:16 RO 0x0 TIMEOUT_FIFO_FULL_COUNT: Indicates the number of full slots in the Timeout boundary status FIFO RW 0x0 TIMEOUT_FIFO_FLUSH: Flush the TIMEOUT FIFO 0 = NOP 1 = FLUSH RW 0x0 TIMEOUT_FIFO_OVF: TIMEOUT FIFO Overflow 0 = OK 1 = ERROR RW 0x0 TIMEOUT_FIFO_UNF: TIMEOUT FIFO Underflow 0 = OK 1 = ERROR RO 0x0 TIMEOUT_FIFO_FULL: TIMEOUT FIFO Full 0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL RO 0x1 TIMEOUT_FIFO_EMPTY: TIMEOUT FIFO Empty 0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY SPI_SPI_DEBUG_REGISTER_0

Quad Serial Peripheral Interface (QSPI) Offset: 0x288 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 27:24 0x0 CUR_STATE_REG_R_FSM: Current state of read FSM 23:21 0x0 CUR_STATE_REG_W_FSM: Current state of write FSM 20:16 0x0 CUR_STATE_REG_M_FSM: Current state of master FSM 15:13 0x0 CUR_STATE_REG_W_SLAVE_FSM: Current state of slave FSM 12:9 0x0 CUR_STATE_CONT_FIFO_WR_REQ_FSM: Current state of slave_req FSM 8:5 0x0 CUR_STATE_TIMEOUT_FSM: Current state of Padding FSM 4:0 0x0 PM_SYNC_FIFO_RD_COUNT: pad_macro sync_fifo rd_count
