## 10.12 Universal Asynchronous Receiver/
Transmitter (UART)
### 10.12.1 Overview
There are seven Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitters (UARTs) built into the System-on- Chip (SoC). Six of them are in the LSIO cluster in the SoC power domain, and the other instance is in ULP in the AON power domain. These UARTs support both 16450- and 16550-compatible modes and all are identical in feature set. UARTs support full-duplex serial data transmission, performing synchronization and parallel-to- serial and serial-to-parallel data conversion. Synchronization is accomplished by adding start and stop bits to transmit data to form a data character. Data integrity may be accomplished by attaching an optional parity bit to the data character. The parity bit can be checked by the receiver for any transmission bit errors. The interface supports word lengths from five to eight bits, an optional parity bit, and one or two stop bits. If enabled, parity can be odd, even, or forced to a defined state. Interrupts can be generated from any of 10 sources. The UART controller supports both 16450 and 16550 compatible modes. The default mode is 16450 (non-FIFO mode). FIFO mode provides two independent FIFOs for transmit and receive and is selected by the FIFO control register. The controller also includes a 16-bit programmable baud rate generator and an 8-bit scratch register, up to six "modem" control lines, and two internal DMA handshake lines that are used to indicate when the FIFOs are ready to transfer data to the CPU.

Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART) The UARTs support a device clock of up to 204 MHz. Each symbol requires 16 clock cycles for proper sampling and processing of the input data stream. Thus, the maximum baud rate is 204/16
- 12.75 Mbps. Because 1 symbol = 1 bit, the data rate is 12.75 Mbps.
#### 10.12.1.1 Features
The features supported by the UARTs are as follows: Synchronization for the serial data stream with start and stop bits to transmit data to and from a data character Data integrity by attaching a parity bit to the data character Support for word lengths from 5 to 8 bits, with an optional parity bit, and one or two stop bits Support for both 16450- and 16550-compatible modes. The default mode is 16450. Baud tolerance of ±2.7% (10 bits per character) DMA capable for both Tx and Rx 8-bit x 36-deep Tx FIFO 11-bit x 36-deep Rx FIFO 3 bits of 11 bits per entry logs the Rx errors in FIFO mode (break, framing, and parity errors as bits 10, 9, 8 of the FIFO entry) Auto sense baud detection Timeout interrupts to indicate if the incoming stream stopped Flow control support using RTS and CTS (hardware/software controlled) Internal loopback SIR encoding/decoding (3/16 or 4/16 baud pulse widths to transmit bit 0)
#### 10.12.1.2 Security Features
There are no secure control or TrustZone protected registers in the UART register specification. Access may however be controlled from the Control Back-Bone of the SoC.
#### 10.12.1.3 Hardware Signaling
All UARTs are implemented by a hardware block that supports modem control signals. For all UARTs, the DSRn and DCDn input signals are tied high (active); the RIn input signal is tied low; and the DTRn output signal is not connected. Table 10.94 Serial Bus Interface Signals Signal Name Description Outputs

Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART) Signal Name Description TXD Transmit Data Port RTS Request to Send DTRn Data Terminal Ready Inputs RXD Receiver Data Port CTS Clear to Send DSRn Data Set Ready DCDn Data Carrier Detect RIn Ring Indicator Note: The DSR, DCD, and RI modem control signals do not control any UART hardware other than generating interrupts and status on change.
#### 10.12.1.4 Clocking
The UART controller requires three clock sources: 1. 2. 3. APB clock: Maximum frequency is 408 MHz clk_24M: Maximum device/Interface clock: 102 MHz clock baud_clk: Maximum frequency of this clock is 204 MHz
##### 10.12.1.4.1 Clock Sources
Table 10.95 Clk_24M Clock Sources UARTA/UARTB/UARTD/UARTE/UARTF/UARTH PLLP_OUT0, CLK_S, CLK_M UARTC PLLP_OUT0, PLLC_OUT0, pllAON_out, OSC_UNDIV, CLK_S Clock Divisors UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_CLK_DIVISOR/AON_UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_CLK_DIVISOR: X = Divide by (N/2+1) To achieve the required fast clock for UART controller, the following registers should be programmed: CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_0 CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_AON_UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_0.

Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART) The source of the clock can be chosen by programming [31:29] of this register and the divisor by programming [7:0]. Divisor to be programmed in [7:0] N = ((X-1)*2) Table 10.96 Baud_clk Clock Sources UARTA/UARTB/UARTD/UARTE/UARTF/UARTH PLLP_OUT0, CLK_S, CLK_M UARTC PLLP_OUT0, PLLC_OUT0, pllAON_out, PLLC4_muxed (controlled by PLLC4_CLK_SEL), CLK_S, OSC_UNDIV Clock Divisor Options UART dll/dlm registers work as clk divisor as in the clock registers. To achieve the required baud rate for a given UART controller, the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UART*_0 register should be programmed. The source of the clock can be chosen by programming [31:29] of this register and divisor by programming [15:0]. To achieve a divisor value of 'X', the register should be configured with value N=((X-1)*2). Programming bit 24 determines if the programmed [15:0] divisor should be used or the DLM/DLL value from UART. Only one of them can be used at a time. For example: Source clock: CLK_M -> crystal clock of 38.4 MHz To achieve baud rate of 115200, baud_clock needed = 1.8432 MHz To achieve 1.8432 MHz with 38.4 MHz crystal clock, divisor needed is (38.4/1.8432) = 20.833333 Since CAR registers provide divisors with granularity of 0.5, the nearest divisor can be either
