# 11.02 22.05 44.1 88.2 176.4

- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x 11.025 x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x 22.05 x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x 44.1 x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x 88.2 x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x 176.4 x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
x x x x x x x x x x
- Bypass
##### 7.7.2.2.8 Audio Flow Controller
The Audio Flow Controller (AFC) can control the flow of traffic between two I2S interfaces running at different clocks that are up to 100 ppm apart. The AFC implements high fidelity interpolation and decimation algorithms that compensate for clock differences. It can control traffic flow anywhere in the audio route, even to the inputs of AMX blocks. The AFC can handle burst traffic from SFCs.
##### 7.7.2.2.9 Output Processing Engine
The Output Processing Engine (OPE) has scalable number of BiQuad stages to support stereo, 5p1, and 7p1 channels meeting Ultra-Low Power (ULP) audio requirements.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.10 Master Volume Control
The Master Volume Control (MVC) provides gain or attenuation to a digital signal path. It can be used in input or output digital signal path for per-stream volume control as well as master volume control. The MVC block has one input and one output. The input digital stream can be mono- or multi- channel (up to 7.1 channels) stream. The output digital stream has the same format as the input stream. Therefore, the sample rate, number of channels, number of bits per sample in the output stream are the same as those in the input stream. An independent mute/unmute control is also included in the MVC block. In addition, whenever the gain or mute setting is changed, the gain applied in digital volume control block is ramped up or down to the new setting. The parameters of the ramp, such as the duration and ramp-curve are programmable. In addition to linear ramp this design also provides hardware acceleration for the Windows audio curve type fade. The windows audio curve type fade is typically implemented using a programmable processor. The MVC block also has a built-in peak meter detector. Peak meter detector is used as a feedback to the user. It is located after volume application and provides the peak output data for each channel. The duration used for the peak meter calculation is programmable.
- MVC Features
- Programmable range and steps for volume control
- Programmable Curve Ramp for volume control
- Independent mute/unmute controls
- Default gain values
- Peak meter detector
##### 7.7.2.2.11 Digital Speaker Controller
The Digital Speaker Controller (DSPK) converts the multi-bit Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) audio input to oversampled 1-bit Pulse Density Modulation (PDM) output. From the signal flow perspective, the DSPK can be viewed as a PDM transmitter that up-samples the input to the desired sampling rate by interpolation then converts the oversampled PCM input to the desired 1- bit output via Delta Sigma Modulation (DSM).
- DSPK Features
- Sample rate support: 8 to 48 kHz
- Input PCM bit-width: 16 to 24 bits
- Oversampling Ratio: 32, 64, 128, 256
- Passband frequency response: <= 0.5 dB peak-to-peak in 10 Hz to 20 kHz range
- THD+N: <= -80 dB @ -10 dBFS
- Dynamic Range: >= 105 dB

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.12 Arbitrary Sample Rate Converter
Audio systems may require high fidelity sample rate conversion because of the plurality of the audio sources. The sample rate may not be known at the stream set-up time, or is potentially time varying. In addition, ratio between input and output sample rate can be any arbitrary number and the input and output clocks could be derived from asynchronous clocks. For this, an Arbitrary Asynchronous Sample Rate Converter (HQ-AASRC) is required. AASRC consists of two parts. First part is the High Quality Arbitrary Sample Rate Converter (HQ-ASRC) or ASRC module. Arbitrary Sample Rate Converter (ASRC) can convert the input samples at input sample rate (fs_in) to output samples at output sample rate (fs_out). This design can handle over a wide-range of sampling-rate ratios from 1:24 to 24:1. Second part is the Ratio-Estimator module. This block estimates the ratio fs_in/fs_out. Ratio-Estimator can be implemented in hardware using the clocks to derive the sampling rate ratios or it can be implemented in software using the input and output buffer fullness.
##### 7.7.2.2.13 ASRC Features
- Support of input sample rates in the range 8 to 192 kHz
- Support of output sample rates in the range 8 to 192 kHz
- Support of any sampling ratio from 1:24 to 24:1
- Provision of THD+N (0 dBFS @1 kHz, 24-bit samples), i.e., 140 dB or better

