# 11.1.2 Functional Safety Island

#### 11.1.2.1 Overview
The Functional Safety Island (FSI) is a processor cluster intended to run functional safety applications at up to ASIL D, or other real-time application tasks. It includes multiple Cortex-R52 real-time processors and a Cortex-R5F real time processor along with dedicated I/O controllers. The FSI is isolated from the rest of the SoC, and has its own voltage rails, a dedicated oscillator, dedicated PLLs, and large internal SRAM. It also supports a number of firewalls in both the control and data planes within the FSI. This ensures a degree of Freedom from Interference (FFI) from the rest of the SoC. FSI allows Orin to run critical safety software, reducing the load on an external safety Micro Controller Unit (MCU).
- FSI has the necessary hardware features to function as an ASIL D safety processor in an
automotive system. It consists of:
- Cortex-R52 Processors – A safety CPU with up to four software-visible cores in Dual-Core
- Lock-Step (DCLS) Mode, for a total of up to eight physical cores. It can run the Classic
- AUTOSAR OS, and can implement Error Handling and other workloads. These processors are
exposed for customer use.
- Cortex-R5F Processor – A Crypto Hardware Security Module (CHSM) CPU to run Crypto and
- Secure use-cases like Secure On-board Communication (SecOC) over the CAN Interface. This
processor is programmed by NVIDIA, and exposed through APIs.

- Functional Safety Island
- Tightly Coupled Memories, Instruction, and Data caches for each core of the Safety and
CHSM CPUs.
- Total of up to 5.5 MB (3 MB SRAM, 2 MB Cortex-R52 TCMs, 0.5 MB Cortex-R5 TCM) of on-
chip dedicated RAM within the island to ensure that the code execution and data storage can be kept within the FSI.
- Total of up to 320 KB Cache: 32KB Instruction Cache, 32 KB Data Cache per Cortex-R5 and
Cortex-R52 CPU. I/O interfaces like CAN, SPI, SBSA UART, and GPIOs for communication with the external components. Hardware Safety mechanisms like DCLS, CRC, ECC, Parity, Timeouts etc., for all IPs within the FSI. Dedicated Thermal, Voltage, and Frequency monitors. Logical Isolation from the rest of the SoC. For some platforms, FSI can be used to offload the main CPU for compute offloads. Towards this, FSI also implements an Interrupt Channel from SoC LIC. This allows SoC IP interrupts to be routed to FSI. However, Interrupts from FSI cannot be routed to LIC.
##### 11.1.2.1.1 FSI Block Diagram with External Connectivity
The diagram below details the internal blocks in FSI Cluster along with connectivity from various external blocks.

- Functional Safety Island
**Figure 11.2 FSI Functional Block Diagram**
##### 11.1.2.1.2 Hardware Interfaces
External I/O interfaces:
- One SPI interface for communication to external safety MCU. Heartbeat signals and error
information for error logging done by safety MCU are sent on this interface. Refer to the Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) section for more information. Four GPIOs for miscellaneous control.
- Two CANs to issue commands to actuators. Refer to the Controller Area Network
(CAN) section for more information.
- One SOC_ERROR signal to safety MCU. This signal communicates to safety MCU that faults
have been detected. A Coresight and debug interface. One SBSA UART for debug purposes. Refer to the SBSA UART section for more information. Internal Interfaces to and from non-FSI:

- Functional Safety Island
- Memory interface to SoC Data Fabric
- Interface to and from SoC Control Fabric
- Interrupts from SoC HSPs
- Error interrupt signals from SCE HSM
- Interrupts from LIC to FSI
##### 11.1.2.1.3 Freedom from Interference
The FSI is intended to run software that is independent from software running on the rest of the SoC. It is important to ensure that its function is not affected by failures in the rest of SoC. Measures are implemented to minimize the interference from the rest of SoC. FSI has its own dedicated resources for the following:
- FSI has its own clock unit, PLL, and clock distribution. FSI clocks are sourced from a
dedicated crystal. Only DFT scan clocks are provided by SoC to FSI. FSI is powered by three independent voltage rails. FSI implements its own temperature monitors. Wherever FSI interfaces with the rest of SoC, the following measures are implemented to reduce the interference: Interrupts sent from LIC to FSI can be disabled at FSI interrupt controllers, if necessary.
- Booting of FSI is initiated and driven by SoC in MB2, and the control path from the SoC
Control Plane (also known as the CBB) is active only during the boot phase. However, the path is disabled after boot, so the SoC Control Plane cannot access FSI resources after boot.
- During boot, key-unwrap key is transferred from SoC to FSI CHSM SE through the keymover
interface. SE uses the key to perform security operations. The keymover interface is disabled and no further data transfer occurs after boot. Debug interfaces are disabled through FSI control bits in mission mode. The logic generating the FSI reset is in CAR logic on the RTC rail thus bypassing other SoC rails. The FSI DRAM interface provides ASIL D level coverage by adding diagnostics in Hardware in FSI (interface is not dedicated and is actually merges with the rest of the traffic in SoC). FSI can access resources outside of the FSI itself. For example, the FSI can access DRAM through a dedicated SoC DBB master interface. FSI also accesses certain SoC resources through the Control Plane. An example is mailboxes, which are used for inter-processor communication. Timeouts are implemented in FSI to ensure that a transaction that is hung on the SoC side does not result in a hang in FSI. Monitors on these interfaces can be engaged when there are no outstanding transactions, to block off spurious or unexpected data or transactions on the response paths.

- Functional Safety Island
##### 11.1.2.1.4 Cocoon Mode of Operation
The cocoon mode of operation is a state where FSI builds fortification around itself to achieve a high degree of isolation from the SoC Logic. The cocoon mode of operation is expected to be engaged by software (and never auto-engaged by hardware). It is strongly recommended as the steady state for FSI, where it executes code from the TCMs and internal SRAM and does not venture out unless requested and/or after determining it is safe to venture out. For the duration that the cocoon mode is disengaged, FSI is vulnerable to any faults that happen in SoC and can get impacted due to dependent failures of SoC. It is expected that in a drive cycle, the cocoon mode will be disengaged less than 1 percent of time. Even in this case, there are bus diagnostics like FSI timeouts that provide coverage for Failure Modes on the interfaces when making accesses. SoC events, such as Faults from SCE HSM, and Interrupts from SCE/CCPLEX mailboxes must still be notified to FSI. For these notification mechanisms, no isolation is engaged in hardware. It is expected that failure modes like continuous reporting from these notification mechanisms will be handled by software, without venturing into the SoC, and instead immediately notifying the external MCU. Recommended Default Mission Mode Configuration: 1. 2. Isolation on FSI CBB Initiator Interface engaged.
- FSI does not make any accesses into CBB (voluntarily). Spurious responses from CBB are
blocked. Isolation on FSI CBB Target Interface engaged post boot and never disengaged. Isolation on FSI DBB Interface engaged. Spurious response from SoC is blocked.
- FSI does not make any accesses into DBB (voluntarily). Spurious responses from DBB are
blocked. 3. 4. 5. a.
- Note: In the event FSI is executing Application Code from DRAM, the DBB interface
isolation always needs to be disengaged. 6. 7. PSC Keymover interface is disabled post boot and never disengaged.
- Debug interfaces disabled through FSI control-bits in mission mode (Mission Mode = Debug
Disabled) and debug clocks gated. a.
- Cocoon mode does not impact the debug outputs from FSI. These help with debug of
cocoon mode itself in a controlled, non-mission environment if needed. In addition, Debug interfaces like Debug APB and ATB can also be selectively enabled for Debug of Cocoon mode itself as needed.
##### 11.1.2.1.5 Error Reporting and Handling
The error architecture includes these main components:
- Hardware/Software Diagnostics to detect errors. Diagnostics such as ECC also correct
certain errors.

- Functional Safety Island
Errors are collated in SCE_HSM for all Parts/Components with exception of FSI. SCE_HSM can communicate error details collected from error sources to FSI. FSI can also collect error information directly from error sources including error sources in HSM except from error sources in CCPLEX and iGPU.
- CCPLEX can forward interrupts related to error received from LIC to either SCE_HSM or
directly to FSI. FSI determines criticality of errors and takes appropriate corrective action. This also includes communicating errors to external MCU with redundant methods (SOC_ERROR signal and Heartbeat messages via FSI SPI).
##### 11.1.2.1.6 Error Types
The errors detected by the SoC hardware fall into two categories: 1. 2.
- Corrected Errors
- Uncorrected Errors
A corrected error is one where the hardware was able to perform a remedial action, and the error does not affect operation. For instance, a single bit error in an SRAM protected with SECDED ECC falls into this category. Corrected error information is logged and reported by hardware. The SoC implements error counters and error logging registers to provide additional information of corrected errors to enable any SoC or platform level corrective measures. An uncorrected error is a hardware error condition that can not be corrected by the hardware. For example, a 2-bit error in an SRAM protected with SECDED ECC falls in to this category. Software can determine the appropriate action. Information related to uncorrected errors is also logged.
##### 11.1.2.1.7 Error Reporting to SCE
Most of the SoC’s IPs outside of FSI, log error information and route error signals either directly or via a local Error Collator (EC) to the Hardware Safety manager (HSM) in the SCE. ECs report errors to HSM as either corrected or uncorrected error. Error information is also logged in local ECs or the
- IP error status registers. At the minimum the ECs keep track of number of errors detected,
corrected, and reported.
- Some IPs report errors only through LIC (includes majority of errors detected in iGPU and
functional errors in IPs) or dual report the errors to both SCE-HSM and LIC. iGPU primarily reports errors to CCPLEX via LIC as either a stall interrupt or a non-stall interrupt or to HSM. Clock monitor (FMON) errors from iGPU are signaled directly to HSM. FSI HSM aggregates all the faults from various safety-critical components and notifies the Safety CPU and/or External MCU once a fault is detected. It offers certain configurability on aspects of notifications for each fault.

- Hardware Safety Manager (HSM)
##### 11.1.2.1.8 Boot
The SoC implements a multi-stage booting process. The boot sequence starts in a mode which is not ready to run safety applications until some checking is performed. The boot sequence can include the IST test sequence to detect latent faults in the SoC. In the SoC, the initial boot sequence starts with SOC_ERROR GPIO indicating that the SoC is not yet ready for safety applications. Any safety errors occurring during boot are handled by FSI (or SCE) once software error handlers get on-line. Two cases must be considered here, and each error must be examined and classified into one of these: The error is expected as a side effect of the reset, an example would be parity errors on an SRAM read before the SRAM is scrubbed.
- The error is not expected and may be the result of an underlying error. The error handler
needs to resolve these types of errors before starting safety application.
##### 11.1.2.1.9 FSI Crypto Hardware Security Module
- This module consists of necessary components to provide hardware acceleration for various
cryptographic operations, and hardware-assisted key protection.

