## 10.8 10G Ethernet Controller
### 10.8.1 Overview
The Multi (10/5/2.5) Gigabit Ethernet (MGBE) controller enables the SoC to transmit and receive data over Ethernet in compliance with the IEEE 802.3-2015 standard. It also supports standards related to Audio Video Bridging (also called Time Sensitive Networking) and is primarily intended for use in automotive applications, but it may also be used as a general-purpose Ethernet interface. The Ethernet Controller also supports Media Access Control Security (MACsec) protocol, which is an 802.1AE IEEE standard defined to provide secure communications between stations that are attached to the same LAN. MACsec can identify and prevent most security threats including denial of service, intrusion, man-in-the-middle, masquerading, passive wiretapping, and playback attacks.
#### 10.8.1.1 Standards Compliance
The Ethernet Controller is compliant with the following standards: IEEE 802.3-2008 for Ethernet MAC Timing IEEE 1588v2-2008 for precision-networked clock synchronization IEEE 802.1as-2011, timing, and synchronization for time-sensitive applications in bridged LANs IEEE 802.3az-2010 for Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE) IEEE 802.1Qat and IEEE 802.1Qav (Credit-based Shaper) standards, Virtual Bridged LANs IEEE 1722-2011, Layer 2 transport protocol for time-sensitive apps in bridged LANs IEEE 802.1Q, VLAN tag filtering of Rx packets Port Speeds 10G/5G/2.5G: USXGMII Standard 10G: XFI Electrical Interface Specification IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015 for Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic (Time-aware shaping) IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br for Frame preemption and Interspersing Express Traffic

10G Ethernet Controller IEEE 802.1AE-2018 for MACSEC Media Access Control Security (MACsec)
#### 10.8.1.2 High-Level Block Diagram
The following figure shows the Ethernet Controller and its interfaces.
**Figure 10.67 High-Level Block Diagram**
### 10.8.2 Ethernet Controller Major Features
#### 10.8.2.1 Features Supported in Hardware
The Ethernet Controller supports the following features: SerDes interfaces XFI 4x10.3125 Gbps per differential pair Support for 12" of FR4 with one connector Low EMI and power due to nominal 500 mV differential drive. Slew control for improved signal integrity and lower EMI. Tx and Rx signals each are a 100 Ohm differential pair, AC coupled. - - - - - USXGMII 4x (10G/5G/2.5G) per differential pair Support for serial Management Interface MDIO and MDC. Each interface supports up to 10 Rx and Tx DMA channels (and queues) shared across five VMs.

10G Ethernet Controller Forwarding Rx multicast/broadcast packets to multiple queues. Supports jumbo frames of up to 16 KB Hardware virtualization supports one (Hypervisor) + five (Guest OS) + one RM (Resource Manager Driver), to share the Ethernet Controller between up to five virtual machines. Sixth VM (called VM5) is provided for shared PTP timestamp reading by all VMs. Packet Integrity protection using IEEE 802.1AE–MACsec protocol on each interface Low predictable latency for audio packet processing (audio synchronized to network time) Data center Bridging with support for PFC (Priority Flow Control)/PAUSE frames Flexible parser TCP/UDP segmentation offload on Transmit and reassembly on Receive
#### 10.8.2.2 Feature Supported in Software
802.1Qat-Stream Reservation Protocol: Used to reserve the bandwidth from end-to-end. Software sets up all intermediate devices with bandwidth requirements per queue. Security - 802.1X: 802.1X defines the KaY protocol, which is used by MACsec software to set up MACsec keys on both ends of the 10 GE link. Time Sensitive Networking (TSN): IEEE 802.1AS-Rev: Timing and Synchronization
#### 10.8.2.3 Features with Limitations
Supports only one outstanding TSO stream per TX DMA channel LRO feature is supported with RSS enabled in hardware. This limits the maximum TCP streams with LRO to 10 (number of queues) per MGBE instance. ARP offload cannot be enabled when preemption is enabled. For PTP offload engine to work, PTP packets should come in only as Express packets. They should never arrive as Preemptable packets. Similarly, PTP packets should be transmitted only as Express packets (on eMAC) and not as Peemptable packets (on pMAC). When Preemption is enabled, only up to 128 bytes of packet can be used for FRP lookup. For best performance, TSO feature should be used with internal TSO memory. If preemption is enabled, MGBE can only duplicate either Express or Preemptable Multicast/ Broadcast packets but not both. MGBE does not support dynamic switch between 10 G and 5 G link speed.
#### 10.8.2.4 Features Not Supported
IEEE 802.1CB–Frame Replication and Elimination This can be enabled in the intermediate switch if required. Can also be provided in software if needed. Wake on Lan (WOL)

10G Ethernet Controller MGBE does not support this feature natively. The external PHY in platforms, which require this functionality supports the WoL feature. The External PHY can communicate Wake on LAN Status to SoC through GPIO_PHY_INT pin.
#### 10.8.2.5 Internal Features
##### 10.8.2.5.1 XGMAC Features
##### 10.8.2.5.2 MAC Core
The XGMAC controller includes the following features: Full-duplex operation at 10/5/2.5 Gbps (XGMII) Flow control using back pressure support. Link fault detection in the XGMII receiver and automatic fault signaling in the XGMII Transmit interface Clause 78 (Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE) feature) of the IEEE 802.3az, standard support Separate transmission, reception, and slave (control and status register) interface to the application Configurable big-endian or little-endian support for transmission and reception datapaths 128-bit data transfer interface on the system side Separate status word returned for each transmitted frame and up to 128-bit status word for each received frame Preamble, SFD, and other control character insertion (in transmit path) and deletion (in receive path). Programmable minimum Inter-Packet Gap (IPG) from 64-bit times to 224-bit times In 10G operation, frames that do not follow the preamble and SFD patterns described in IEEE 802.3-2008, Clause 46 are dropped. Supports DIC (Deficit Idle Count) algorithm to maintain the average IPG gap of 12Bytes between frames in XGMII mode Thirty-two-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) generation for transmit frames and checking for received frames. Programmable support for receive-side CRC stripping. CRC addition or replacement on transmit side controllable on a per-frame basis Padding in transmit side for short (less-than-64 byte long) frames received from application. Pad stripping on the receive side for short frames Programmable source address inclusion or replacement for Transmit frames Programmable frame length, supporting standard, or jumbo (extendable to 16 KB) Ethernet frames Support for jumbo frames up to 9 KB expandable up to 16 KB

10G Ethernet Controller Truncation support for oversized frame reception and transmission at fixed thresholds of 2,048, 10,240, or 16,383 bytes. Alternatively, the truncation thresholds can be programmed in steps of 1 KB from 2 KB onwards. Supports IEEE 802.3 flow-control and priority-based flow control (PFC) Optional forwarding of received PAUSE/PFC control frames to the application Automatic transmission of zero-quanta PAUSE/PFC frames on flow-control input deassertion Support for unicast PAUSE/PFC frame reception Transmission of PAUSE/PFC frames triggered by either software-controlled register bit or optional input signal or based on Queue fill level (in MTL and AXI configurations). Support for VLAN-tagged frame processing in compliance with the IEEE 802.1Q standard Support for VLAN-tagged frame detection, stripping, and filtering Support for VLAN tag inclusion, replacement, or deletion in transmit frames through per- frame Sideband control signals and the CSR Support for up to two Stacked-VLAN tagged or QinQ tagged packets. Support for the following flexible address-filtering modes for received frames: Up to 32 destination address (DA) perfect match address filters with masks for each byte. Up to 31 source address (SA) perfect match filters with masks for each byte. 64-bit, 128-bit, or 256-bit hash filter (optional) for multicast and unicast (DA) addresses. Option to pass all multicast-addressed frames. Promiscuous mode to pass all frames without any filtering for network monitoring. VLAN-based perfect matched and hash filtering Up to eight Layer 3 and Layer 4-based (TCP or UDP over IPv4 or IPv6) match filters. Pass all incoming packets with a status report as determined by the filter. Control frame filtering other than PAUSE/PFC Option to forward all control frames other than PAUSE/PFC control frames Option to filter unicast control frames that fail the DA address perfect match filter Network statistics with RMON or MIB Counters (RFC2819/RFC2665) 64-bit RMON counters to avoid fast wrap-up at 10 Gbps data rates. For example, octet counters Optional features to support Ethernet packet timestamping as described in IEEE 1588-2008 (64-bit timestamps given in the Tx or Rx status of each packet) Provides Tx timestamps in CSR Status Register for two-step timestamping as Tx status is not provided back to the host in XGMAC-AXI configurations. Option to store up to 16 timestamps with packet identifier in the CSR One-step timestamping in Tx direction with the host providing a 64-bit timestamp along with Ts packet. XGMAC-CORE parses PTP (over Ethernet) packets and insert or correct timestamp in appropriate header field. Parses received frames for PTP packets and take timestamps as per configured node. Provides registers for asymmetric time correction

10G Ethernet Controller Supports internal system time generation and update along with option of taking reference time as input. Support for dynamic selection of reference time source through control bit in CSR Flexibility to control the Pulse-Per-Second (PPS) output signal (ptp_pps_o) Support for capturing timestamp based on external trigger and providing it in CSR Optional PTP offload module to support automatic generation and transmission of SYNC and Delay request/Response PTP packets Loopback capability at XGMII (transmit data to receive path). MDIO Master interface (optional) for multiple PHY devices and their configuration and management. Interrupt generation mechanism through MDIO for hot-plugged XENPAK IPv4 header checksum offload on reception TCP, UDP, or ICMP checksum offload (IPv4 and IPv6) for received packets Receive-Side Scaling (RSS) based on Toeplitz HASH algorithm. The incoming traffic is segregated into (up to) 16 DMA channels based on the RSS hash. IP out-of-sequence detection for TCP/UDP over IP traffic in each channel based on the RSS hash. The out-of- sequence status is given along with the data.
##### 10.8.2.5.3 MAC Transaction Layer
The MTL block consists of two sets of FIFOs: Transmit FIFO with programmable threshold capability. Receive FIFO with a programmable threshold (default 64 bytes). Common Transmit and Receive Features 128-bit, Transaction Layer block that bridges the application and the MAC Ten queues in single RAM on TX side and another ten on RX side Programmable burst length, up to half the size of the MTL Rx queue or Tx queue size, to support burst data transfer in the XGMAC-MTL Supports store and forward and threshold modes for data transfer in FIFO. Programmable threshold capability for each queue (default of 64 bytes) Programmable size for each queue buffer. Transmit Features Transmit memory size from 1 KB to 32 KB for single queue configurations. Up to 128 KB for multiple queues configurations, with size configurable in powers of 2. Programmable size with granularity of 256 bytes per queue Checksum module to calculate and insert IPv4 (L3) header checksum and TCP, UDP, or ICMP (L4) checksum in each queue

10G Ethernet Controller The TX queues can be mapped into eight traffic classes for scheduling and bandwidth allocation. Multiple (up to eight) traffic classes are supported, with the following scheduling algorithms. The number of traffic classes and transmit queues can be independently selected so that the number of transmit queues is always greater than or equal to the number of traffic classes. Weighted Round Robin (WRR) Deficit-Weighted Round Robin (DWRR) (when DCB enabled) Weighted Fair Queuing (WFQ) (when DCB enabled) Strict Priority (SP) Packet level control for VLAN tag insertion or replacement Ethernet source address insertion Checksum insertion One-step timestamp correction Timestamp control CRC and pad control When audio-video bridging is enabled, it supports credit-based Shaper scheduling algorithms in configurations with multiple queues. Forwarding the Transmit status to the application. Useful when time-sensitive networking is enabled using Time-Based Scheduling (TBS). Receive Features Rx FIFO size from 4 KB to 32 KB for single queue configurations. Up to 192 KB for multiple queues configurations, with size configurable in powers of 2. Programmable size with granularity of 256 bytes per queue Insertion of Rx status vectors into the Rx queue after the EOP transfer (in Threshold mode) and before SOP (in Store-and-Forward mode) in XGMAC-MTL configuration. In store-and- forward mode, the status is available before the packet data. Therefore, the application can take the packet processing decision even before the packet is read from the queue. This enables multiple-frame storage in the Rx queue without requiring additional memories blocks to store the Rx status of packets. Option to filter all error packets on reception and not forward them to the application in the store-and-forward mode. Option to forward the undersized good packets Automatic generation of Pause packet control to the MAC based on the Rx queue fill level with programmable Flow control thresholds in each Rx queue. Received packets are mapped into the multiple queues based on the Priority field of the VLAN tag or on Packet Type (DCB control packet, and so on). Option to select Audio-Video Bridging feature on Rx side only (AVB Listener applications) by un-selecting this feature on Tx side

10G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.8.2.5.4 DMA
The DMA block exchanges the data between the MTL block and the host memory. The host can use a set of registers (DMA CSR) to control the DMA operations. The DMA block supports the following features: 128-bit data transfers Multichannel Transmit and Receive engines (up to 10 Transmit and 10 Receive channels). Separate DMA channel in the Transmit path for each queue in MTL. Single or multiple DMA channels for any number of queues in MTL Receive path Descriptor structure to support the following: Byte-aligned addressing for data buffer Dual-buffer descriptor ring and support for 64-bit addressing in descriptor structure. Expandable descriptor with context descriptor for additional control and status information Descriptor architecture to permit large blocks of data transfer with minimum CPU intervention (each descriptor can transfer up to 8 KB of data). TCP Segmentation offload (TSO) and IEEE 1588 timestamps One-step PTP time correction in Tx, that is, input 64-bit timestamp provided in descriptor. Option to provide 64-bit timestamp for received packets. Option to give up to two VLAN tags in descriptor for insertion or replacement in Tx and stripped VLAN tags in Rx Option to split the packet header (Layer 3 and Layer 4) and Layer 4 payload in different buffers. Delivers RSS hash and Out-of-Sequence information for packets received with TCP/UDP over IP payload Individual programmable burst size for Tx DMA and Rx DMA engines for optimal host bus utilization Local memory for storing TSO headers for better performance Selectable number of Tx DMA channels with TCP Segmentation offload (TSO) feature enabled. TSO engine to support TCP over IPv4/IPv6 segmentation Routing of received packets to the DMA channels based on RSS hash or the Ethernet DA or VLAN Priority in multichannel DMA configurations. Register programmable RX buffer sizes for each DMA channel. Additional per-DMA channel interrupt for normal packet transfers Per-packet Transmit and Receive Interrupt control in descriptors. Enhanced DMA (EDMA) architecture for better performance and throughput Supports prefetching and caching up to 32 descriptors for each DMA channel Descriptor fetches, data transfers, and Descriptor writes are de-linked and performed independently to reduce gaps between data transfers of each DMA. TxDMA engines have capability to issue up to 16 outstanding requests for packet/burst transfer.

10G Ethernet Controller DMA descriptor writes can be “posted”, so that next descriptor can be processed immediately for next packet. Option to support L2 Network Virtualization protocol (VXLAN/NVGRE) stateless-offloading functions are as follows: Recognition and processing of either VXLAN or NVGRE (selectable through programming) based Tunneled packets. Checksum offload functions act on both outer UDP/IP header as well as the inner L3-L4 headers. TCP Segment offload Engine segments a tunneled packet into multiple segments each with necessary tunneled packet headers Routing of the incoming tunneled packets based on VNI/TNI, FlowID (for NVGRE), Inner DA and Optionally Inner VLAN Tag Supports Hash based mechanism to select the RxDMA channel for forwarding. Option to transfer the complete header (including Tunneling header and Inner Packet header) and inner payload in to separate buffers. Support for processing both Tunneled (VxLAN/NVGRE) packets and Untunneled (normal) packets simultaneously Time-sensitive conditional packet transmission by comparing the Slot Time information provided in the descriptor (useful for AV applications)
##### 10.8.2.5.5 AXI Interface
AXI Master Interface The AXI master interface is compatible to interface with AXI-4 slave ports. It supports the following features: 40-bit address width, little-endian, and byte-invariant big-endian modes AXI low-power interface 128-bit data OKAY, SLVERR, and DECERR responses from AXI slaves Software-selected type of AXI burst (fixed and variable length burst) in AXI master interface; option to select address-aligned bursts. AXI 4 KB boundary burst splitting and option to limit burst splitting boundary to 1 KB. Up to 256 outstanding Read and Write transactions with register-programmable control. Minimum of 2 outstanding requests per channel in maximum configuration of 10 TxDMA and 10 RxDMA channels One of the outstanding requests is reserved for high priority Descriptor operation. Posted writes during multiple data transfers from the AXI master interface to maximize the bus utilization. AXI-ID based on DMA channel number. Each TX and RX DMA has its own ID for data transfer.

10G Ethernet Controller APB Slave Interface CSR access is provided over 32-bit APB interface.
##### 10.8.2.5.6 Audio Video Support
XGMAC supports the following Audio Video (AV) features: Separate channels or queues for AV data transfer Up to eight queues on the Receive paths for AV traffic and seven queues on the Transmit path for AV traffic IEEE 802.1-Qav specified credit-based shaper (CBS) algorithm for Transmit channels Single Tx FIFO and Rx FIFO (MTL) for all selected queues (system-side interface [AXI, or native] remains the same).
##### 10.8.2.5.7 Time Sensitive Networking Features
XGMAC supports the following Time Sensitive Networking (TSN) features: IEEE 802.1Qbv-2015, Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic IEEE802.1Qbu/802.3br, Frame preemption, and Interspersing Express Traffic
##### 10.8.2.5.8 Automotive Safety Features
The automotive safety features are targeted to improve the reliability and reduce the time taken to detect faults in the controller. XGMAC supports the following features for automotive safety: Error correction code (ECC) protection for memories On-chip datapath parity protection FSM parity and timeout protection Application/CSR interface timeout protection
##### 10.8.2.5.9 Monitoring, Testing and Debug
Support for internal loopback on the XGMII/GMII for debugging DMA states (Tx and Rx) as status bits Current Tx or Rx Buffer pointer as status registers Current Tx or Rx Descriptor pointer as status registers Statistical counters to calculate the bandwidth served by each Transmit channel when DCB support is enabled.

10G Ethernet Controller Provides debug status register that gives the status of FSMs in the Transmit and Receive datapaths and FIFO fill-levels Provides Complete network Ethernet statistics (optional) with RMON-MIB counters (RFCs 2819 and 2665)
#### 10.8.2.6 Physical Coding Sublayer (PCS) Features
PCS operates in 10G-BASE-R Mode. It provides an interface between MACsec and UPHY (PMA) through a Media independent interface.
**Figure 10.68 XPCS Top-Level Diagram**

10G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.8.2.6.1 Transmit Block
The features of the transmit block are: Implements the following interfaces: XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds. Performs 64B/66B encoding. In these 66 bits, 64 bits are data bits and 2 bits are Sync Header bits. Performs optional FEC encoding Performs scrambling of 64 data bits of PCS data The data bits are scrambled before they are passed to UPHY as 32 bits @322.265625 MHz. The UPHY serializes this data at 10.3125 Gbps data rate.
##### 10.8.2.6.2 Receive Block
The features of the receive block are: Implements the following interfaces: XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox Performs 66-bit block alignment Performs optional FEC decoding Performs 64B/66B decoding Carries out BER monitoring and generate pcs_signal_ok status as interface output. Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds Performs clock compensation between Rx recovered clock and Tx clock
#### 10.8.2.7 UPHY Features
MGBE is connected to external devices through UPHY module. The connectivity of MGBE instances to UPHY brick is shown in the following figure.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.69 MGBE Instances to UPHY**
### 10.8.3 10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
#### 10.8.3.1 Overview
MGBE is 10G Ethernet Controller that supports 10G over XFI interface and 10G/5G/2.5G over USXGMII interface. MGBE also supports MACsec based Integrity protection on these interfaces. There are four MGBE instances supporting four lanes of 10G each. The IP is configured with an AXI4 master interface for system memory access and APB4 slave interfaces for Control and Status Registers (CSR) access from host software.
**Figure 10.70 MGBE Overview**
XGMAC DMA controller has 10 receive and 10 transmit channels. The DMA controller reads data from system memory (through the AXI4 master interface) into transmit (Tx) memory buffer. MTL and MAC blocks manage transmission of data from the Tx buffer to the network. Data received on

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description the network is stored into receive (Rx) memory buffer of the controller. Rx DMA controller writes the Rx buffer data to system memory (through the AXI4 master interface). XGMAC micro-architecture provides 1GMAC access to six memory buffers: TSO memory: 10 kB (1 kB per channel) of on chip memory to store headers for Transmit Segmentation Offload Tx Memory: 128 kB of on-chip memory to store transmit packets Rx Memory: 192 kB of on-chip memory to store received packets EST memory: 2 kB Memory for Descriptor Cache Descriptor Cache: 30 kB Ethernet data from XGMAC is connected to MACSEC IP, which implements MACSEC ICV generation and checking in compliance with IEEE802.1AE. Output of the MACSEC IP is connected to the PCS that connects to pads connected to off chip PHY module. 1GMAC has multiple interrupts for various events that can occur in its MAC or in its DMA controller. The controller also generates fault signals that will be connected to HSM (Hardware Safety Manager) block on the chip to report faults in Ethernet Controller logic.
#### 10.8.3.2 MAC Details
The components of the MGBE MAC are explained in the following figure.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.71 MAC Details**
Using CSR, software can configure the XGMAC-CORE to operate at 10/5/2.5G(XGMII) speeds. The XGMAC-CORE contains the MAC Transmitter and Receiver functions specified in the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard. It interfaces to the line side with the XGMII and with a native interface to the system side. These system-side interfaces, called the MAC Transmit Interface (MTI) and the MAC Receive Interface (MRI) are synchronous, respectively, to the XGMII transmit and XGMII receive clocks. In addition to these interfaces, the application can access the Control and Status Registers (CSR) through an APB4 interface. XGMAC-MTL layer introduces a FIFO buffer into the transmit and receives paths. It interfaces to the system with native interfaces called the Application Transmit Interface (ATI) and Application Receive Interface (ARI). These interfaces are synchronous to the system clock. APB4 Slave interface is used to access CSRs inside the unit.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description The AXI master interface permits multiple numbers of burst requests to be queued for Read or Write operation. The descriptor transfers have priority over the data transfers. Therefore, if there is an Rx Descriptor Read and a Tx Data Read request, the Rx Descriptor Read is given priority so that the next Rx Data Write (subsequent to Rx Descriptor Read) does not have to wait for the Tx Data Read transfer to complete. If there are descriptor read requests from both DMAs, these requests are serviced based on the first-come first-serve basis. The Rx DMA has priority if descriptor read requests, generated from both DMAs, are in the same clock. Similarly, in the write channel, descriptor writes from any DMA have priority than the data-write transfers for the Rx DMA. The AXI master supports the little-endian and byte-invariant big-endian modes on the AXI master ports. The AXI master does not support narrow transfers and always performs full data-width transfers. Whenever there is an error response from the AXI slave, the respective DMA channel, which generated the request gets disabled. The XGMAC-AXI master asserts the interrupt (sbd_intr_o) when the corresponding “Fatal Bus Error” interrupt is enabled. Only the DMA whose specific transaction had the error response gets affected and goes to STOP state. The application can reinitialize that specific DMA and restart the operation. The traffic on the other channels does not get affected if an Error is detected for a DMA Channel. The DMA has independent Transmit (Tx) and Receive (Rx) engines, and a CSR space. The Tx engine transfers data from the system memory to the device port (MTL), whereas the Rx engine transfers data from the device port to the system memory. The controller uses descriptors to move data efficiently from source to destination with minimal application CPU intervention. The DMA is designed for packet-oriented data transfers such as packets in Ethernet. The controller can be programmed to interrupt the application CPU for situations such as Packet Transmit and Receive Transfer completion, and other normal or error conditions. The DMA and the application communicate through the following two data structures: Control and Status registers (CSR) Descriptor lists and data buffers The DMA transfers the data packets received by the MAC to the Rx buffer in system memory. The DMA transfers the Tx data packets from the Tx buffer in the system memory. The descriptors that reside in the system memory contain the pointers to these buffers. The DMA supports up to 10 Tx and 10 Rx Descriptor lists (or DMA channels). The base address of each list is written to the respective Tx Descriptor List Address register and Rx Descriptor List Address register. The descriptor list is forward linked, and the next descriptor is always considered at a fixed offset to the current one. Programming of the DSL field of DMA_Ch(#i)_Control register controls the offset. The number of descriptors in the list is programmed in the respective Tx (or Rx) Descriptor Ring Length register. After the DMA processes the last descriptor in the list, it jumps back to the descriptor in the List Address Register to create a descriptor ring. Each descriptor can point to a maximum of two buffers. This enables two buffers to be used, physically addressed, rather than contiguous buffers in memory. A data buffer resides in the application memory space and consists of an entire packet or part of a packet but cannot exceed a single packet. Buffers contain only data. Buffer status is maintained in the descriptor. Data

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description chaining refers to packets that span multiple data buffers. However, a single descriptor cannot span multiple packets. The DMA skips to the data buffer of next packet when EOP is detected. The DWC_xgmac supports the ring structure for the DMA descriptor. The XGMAC-AXI always uses Enhanced DMA (EDMA) controller. In EDMA, the following tasks optimize the efficiency of packet transfer in parallel: Multiple Descriptor Fetch Data Transfer Descriptor Write Back All DMA phases work independently in a pipelined fashion. The descriptor fetch of a new packet is performed with data transfer of the previous packet and the descriptor write back of the last to previous packet. In this way, packet transfers throughput are improved with minimal gaps between them.
#### 10.8.3.3 PCS Details
##### 10.8.3.3.1 XFI PCS
The PCS-R Transmit block implements the following functions: Implements the following interfaces: XGMII interface towards the MAC 10GBASE-R interface towards the PHY Performs 64B/66B encoding for block boundary determination Performs optional Forward Error Correction (FEC) encoding Performs scrambling to ensure transition density Generates test patterns The following are the PCS-R Receive block features: Implements the following interfaces: XGMII interface towards the MAC 10GBASE-R interfaces from the PHY Performs 66-bit block alignment Performs optional FEC decoding Descrambles data to recover the original unscrambled data Performs 64B/66B decoding Checks the test patterns. Performs Clock Rate compensation The following figure displays the components of the PCS-R datapath.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.72 XFI PCS Datapath Components**
##### 10.8.3.3.2 USXGMII PCS
Operating Speed Mode MGBE supports the following speed modes of USXGMII: USXGMII_10G USXGMII_5G Table 10.34 USXGMII_10G Frequency and Data Widths Notes UPHY Output Data Rate (Gbps) UPHY Input (F=Frequency MHz D=Data Width) PCS Output (F=Frequency MHz D=Data Width) Effective Speed MAC Output (F=Frequency MHz D=Data Width) 10G F= 312.5 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125 5G F= 312.5/2 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125 PCS output is duplicated 2x. 2.5G F= 312.5/4 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125 PCS output is duplicated 4x. CAR divisor programming for the previously mentioned three cases is as follows:

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description 10G Effective Speed This is the default speed mode of DWC_xpcs. In this mode, MAC is expected to send data at 10 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMII interface operates at 32-bit @ 312.5 MHz. The 32-bit XGMII data is converted to 64-bit at 156.25 MHz internally. This data is processed as per Clause 49 of IEEE 802.3 specification and finally sent of DWC_xpcs towards the UPHY at a rate of
## 10.3125 Gbps .
Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. 1. 2. 3. 4. GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_RX_PCS_CLK_SRC_SEL = RX_PCS GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1 5G Effective Speed In this mode, MAC sends data at 5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMII interface operates at 32-bit @ 156.25 MHz. For 10G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is replicated twice to form 64-bit data at 156.25 MHz (UPHY still operates at 10G speed). This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 10.3125Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. 1. 2. 3. GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1 2.5G Effective Speed In this mode, MAC sends data at 2.5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMI interface operates at 32-bit @ 78.125 MHz. For 10G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is replicated four times to form 128-bit data at 78.125 MHz (UPHY still operates at 10G speed). This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 10.3125Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. 1. 2. 3. GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description Table 10.35 USXGMII_5G Frequency and Data Widths Notes UPHY Output Data Rate (Gbps) UPHY Input (F=Frequency MHz D=Data Width) PCS Output (F=Frequency MHz D=Data Width) Effective Speed MAC Output (F=Frequency MHz D=Data Width) 10G F= 312.5 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125 Not supported 5G F= 312.5/2 D= 32b F=312.5/4 D=66b F=644.53/2 D=16b 5.1562 2.5G F= 312.5/4 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53/2 D=16b 5.1562 PCS output is duplicated 2x. CAR divisor programming for the previously mentioned three cases is as follows: 5G Effective Speed MAC sends data at 5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface in this mode. The XGMII interface operates at 32-bit @ 156.25 MHz. For 5G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is converted to 64b data @ 78.125 MHz. This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 5.1562 Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2 1. 2. 3. 2.5G Effective Speed In this mode, MAC sends data at 2.5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMI interface operates at 32-bit @ 78.125 MHz. For 5G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is replicated two times to form 64-bit data at 78.125 MHz (UPHY still operates at 5G speed). This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 5.1562 Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4 GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2 1. 2. 3. PCS Details In the transmit path, the XGMII transmit data (after replication) is encoded using a 64/66b encoder (as described in clause 49 of IEEE 802.3-2012). Then the data is scrambled and fed to a Gear-Box to convert the data to a 64b width suitable for the SERDES.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description In the receive path, data received data from SERDES is first fed to a reverse gear-box to convert it into 66-bit format. The data is then descrambled and 66/64b decoded. The data-replication (for speeds other than 10G) is removed and then suitably fed to XGMII port based on the operating speed mode. Data is replicated when sending to higher speed links as per clause 49. When sending to 10G link, 2.5G MAC Output data is replicated four times and 5G MAC Output data is replicated two times. Similarly when sending to 5G link, MAC Output data at 2.5G is replicated two times before being sent out. The following figure shows the operation of USXGMII PCS block in details.
**Figure 10.73 USXGMII PCS Datapath Components**
#### 10.8.3.4 UPHY Details
The purpose of this document is to describe the interactions between pad and the required supporting logic on the core. In MGBE, SERDES is implemented using UPHY (Universal PHY) logic.
##### 10.8.3.4.1 Reset
Follow the sequence of operations during initial bring-up: 1. 2. Release PHY reset. Program PLL PHY registers.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description 3. 4. 5. Enable clock sequencer. Program data PHY registers. Start lane power sequence.
##### 10.8.3.4.2 PLL Power States
The PLL provides the serial clocks for the lanes, the symbol/controller clocks, and the reference clocks for other related logic. The PLL does not observe any of the interface power states directly and it usually managed by the clock unit depending on the different activity levels: During initial boot, the PLL is placed into disabled state until the controller determines the PLL might be required. If only the resistor calibration is needed, the PLL can be placed into a Sleep state where the calibration can be done while the clock generation functions are still disabled. Once high-speed clocks are needed, the PLL should be placed into an Active state to generate the digital clocks for the core logic and the serial clocks for internal TX/RX high-speed operation. Table 10.36 Power Up Timing Details for PLL Symbol Parameter Min Max Notes TDISABLED-ACTIVE Disable to Sleep time 100 ns Internal reset state TSLEEP-ACTIVE Sleep to Active time 30 µs PLL and digital output clocks stable.
##### 10.8.3.4.3 Lanes Power States and Rate Controls
Power State Controls The interface power state of each lane can be controlled independently. The transmitter and receiver signals can be controlled separately but it is expected that during normal operation they would be controlled together. Every power management sequence starts by following the protocol to place the link into an electrical idle status. Due to the unidirectional nature, it is possible that only the Tx or Rx is placed in electrical idle. To proceed with aggressive power optimizations, Tx and Rx must achieve electrical idle status at which time the link can move the lanes into a different power state. This depends on the exit latency requirements. Due to the large current transients involved with power up and power down events, the link wakeup must be staggered across lanes to minimize the power supply requirement. Synchronization

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description During the power up process, the pad generates its own synchronization and reset for proper operation. Sequence The following lane power up sequence is required to establish an active interface from either a power-on-reset event or wake-up event. Table 10.37 Power-up Sequence: Transmitter Name Sequence Order Event Signal Description Lane Enable Set IDDQ Set IDDQ status to enable (low). Lane Wakeup Set T/RX_SLEEP Set sleep status to enable (low). Wait Not applicable Wait for internal bias to stabilize. Wait Internal SYNC/RESET Perform internal sync/reset operations. Set TX_DATA_READY Set data ready (high) to prepare transmitter for electrical idle exit. TX/RX Enable Set T/RX_DATA_EN Set data enable (high) for transmitter/receiver to send/ receive data respectively.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.74 Lane Power Up Sequence**
Note: The RX_CLK is only guaranteed to be running by the end of the power up time. The timing requirements of the lane through its power up sequence are: Table 10.38 Power Up Timing: Lane Symbol Parameter Min Max Notes TIDDQ-SLEEP IDDQ inactive to SLEEP inactive 50 ns Wait time before enabling before waking up circuit. TSLEEP-DATAREADY SLEEP inactive to DATA_READY active 500 ns Lane synchronized and bias stable. TSLEEP-DATAEN SLEEP inactive to DATA_EN active 500 ns Lane synchronized and bias stable. TSYNC Pulse width for sync/reset event Allow internal logic to sync properly. TDATAREADY-DATAEN DATA_READY active to DATA_EN active 50 ns Transmitter driver clock enabled.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description Symbol Parameter Min Max Notes TDATAEN-TX Transmitter latency 3 symbol 4 symbol Latency from TX_DATA to TXP/TXN. TDATAEN-RX Receiver latency
