# 11 :9

- RO
0x0 Reserved_11_9: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 DSPW:
- Descriptor Posted Write. - 0: By default, all Rx DMA descriptor writes are
non-posted and any Rx interrupt generation mechanism can be used, that is, Descriptor IOC, Watchdog timer, Byte Counter based or any combination of these. - 1: All Rx DMA data and descriptor writes are posted and Descriptor IOC based Rx interrupt generation does not function properly and must not be used. Only Watchdog timer, Byte
- Counter based or any combination of these Rx interrupt generation
mechanisms must be used. The Tx/Rx DMA Descriptor IOC based Tx/Rx interrupt generation mechanism does not function properly and must not be used. 7:6
- RO
0x0 Reserved_7_6: Reserved.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_TMRP: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 TDRP:
- Tx Descriptor Read Priority. This bit controls the arbitration priority of
descriptor fetches from the local cache when simultaneous requests are generated from RxDMA and TxDMA channels. By default, when this bit is 0, the RxDMA requests get higher priority. When this bit is set to 1,
- TxDMA descriptor fetches are serviced first by the arbiter before the
RxDMA requests. 3:1
- RO
0x0 Reserved_3_1: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 SWR:
- Software Reset. When this bit is set, the MAC and the DMA controller
reset the logic and all internal registers of the DMA, MTL, and MAC. This bit is automatically cleared after the reset operation is complete in all
- DWC_xgmac clock domains. Before reprogramming any DWC_xgmac
register, read a value of 0 from this bit. Note: The reset operation is complete only when all resets in all active clock domains are de-asserted.
- Therefore, it is essential that all PHY inputs clocks (applicable for the
selected PHY interface) are present for software reset completion. The time to complete the software reset operation depends on the frequency of the slowest active clock.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 2
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_DMA_SYSBUS_MODE_0
The System Bus mode register controls the behavior of the AXI master. It mainly controls burst splitting and number of outstanding requests.
- Offset: 0x3004
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x01010000 (0b0000,0001,0000,0001,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 Reserved_31_30: Reserved. 30:24
- RW
0x1 WR_OSR_LMT:
- AXI Maximum Write Outstanding Request Limit. This value limits the
maximum outstanding request on the AXI write interface. Maximum outstanding requests = WR_OSR_LMT + 1 Note: - Bit 29 is reserved and RO if AXI Maximum Outstanding Write Requests selected are less than 64 - Bit 28 is reserved and RO if AXI Maximum Outstanding Write
- Requests selected are less than 32 - Bit 27 is reserved and RO if AXI
- Maximum Outstanding Write Requests selected are less than 16
- RO
0x0 Reserved_23_22: Reserved. 22:16
- RW
0x1 RD_OSR_LMT:
- AXI Maximum Read Outstanding Request Limit. This value limits the
maximum outstanding request on the AXI read interface. Maximum outstanding requests = RD_OSR_LMT + 1 Note: - Bit 21 is reserved and RO if AXI Maximum Outstanding Read Requests selected are less than 64 - Bit 20 is reserved and RO if AXI Maximum Outstanding Read
- Requests selected are less than 32 - Bit 19 is reserved and RO if AXI
- Maximum Outstanding Read Requests selected are less than 16
- RW
0x0 EN_LPI:
- Enable Low Power Interface (LPI). - 1: Enables the LPI mode supported
by the AXI interface and accepts the LPI request from the AXI System
- Clock controller. - 0: Disables the LPI mode and always denies the LPI
request from the AXI System Clock controller.
- RW
0x0 LPI_XIT_PKT:
- Unlock on Magic Packet or Remote Wake-Up Packet. - 1: Enables the
- AXI master to come out of the LPI mode only when the magic packet
or remote wake-up packet is received. - 0: Enables the AXI master to come out of the LPI mode when any packet is received.
- RW
0x0 ONEKBBE: 1 KB Boundary Crossing Enable for the AXI Master. - 1: The burst transfers performed by the AXI master do not cross 1 KB boundary. - 0: The burst transfers performed by the AXI master do not cross 4 KB boundary.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 2
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 AAL:
- Address-Aligned Beats. When this bit is set to 1, the AXI master
performs address-aligned burst transfers on Read and Write channels.
- RW
0x0 EAME:
- Enhanced Address Mode Enable. When this bit is set to 1, the DMA
master enables the enhanced address mode (40-bit or 48-bit addressing mode). In this mode, the DMA engine uses either the 40- or 48-bit address, depending on the configuration.
- RW
0x0 AALE:
- Automatic AXI LPI enable. When set to 1, enables the AXI master to
enter into LPI state when there is no activity in DWC_xgmac for number of system clock cycles programmed in the LPIEI field of AXI_LPI_Entry_Interval register. 9:8
- RO
0x0 Reserved_9_8: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 BLEN256:
- AXI Burst Length 256. When this bit is set to 1, the AXI master can
select a burst length of 256 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN128:
- AXI Burst Length 128. When this bit is set to 1, the AXI master can
select a burst length of 128 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN64:
- AXI Burst Length 64. When this bit is set to 1, the AXI master can
select a burst length of 64 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN32:
- AXI Burst Length 32. When this bit is set to 1, the AXI master can
select a burst length of 32 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN16:
- AXI Burst Length 16. When this bit and the UNDEF bit is set to 0, the
- AXI master can select a burst length of 16 on the AXI interface. When
- UNDEF is set to 1, this bit has no effect as the AXI master can always
select a burst length up to 16 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN8:
- AXI Burst Length 8. When this bit and the UNDEF bit is set to 0, the
- AXI master can select a burst length of 8 on the AXI interface. When
the UNDEF bit is set to 1, setting this bit has no effect.
- RW
0x0 BLEN4:
- AXI Burst Length 4. When this bit and the UNDEF bit is set to 0, the
- AXI master can select a burst length of 4 on the AXI interface. When
the UNDEF bit is set to 1, setting this bit has no effect.
- RW
0x0 UNDEF:
- AXI Undefined Burst Length. When this bit is set to 1, the AXI master
can perform burst transfers that are equal to or less than the maximum allowed burst length programmed in Bits[7:4]. When this bit is set to 0, the AXI master performs one of the following burst transfers: - Burst transfers of fixed burst lengths as indicated by the
- BLEN256, BLEN128, BLEN64, BLEN32, BLEN16, BLEN8, or BLEN4 field
- Burst transfers of length 1 When this bit is set and no BLEN bit is
set, the AXI master performs bursts transfers of any length upto 16.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 2
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_DMA_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0
The application reads this Interrupt Status register during interrupt service routine or polling to determine the interrupt status of DMA channels, MTL queues, and the MAC.)
- Offset: 0x3008
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

