# 12 :11

- RW
0x0 DHLFRS:
- DA Hash Index or L3/L4 Filter Number in Receive Status. This field
selects either DA hash index, L3/L4 filter number or both information to provide in receive descriptor. Values: 0x0: Use both backward compatible
- DA hash index & L3/L4 filter number fields in receive status. For its
proper usage, program DA hash table and number of L3/L4 filters in such way that these index fields can be accommodated respective index/ number. 0x1: Use combined DA hash table index and L3/L4 filter number fields to provide only DA hash table index. 0x2: Use combined DA hash table index and L3/L4 filter number fields to provide only L3/L4 filter number. 0x3: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 HPF:
- Hash or Perfect Filter. When this bit is set, the address filter passes a
packet if it matches either the perfect filtering or hash filtering as set by the HMC or HUC bit. When this bit is reset and the HUC or HMC bit is set, the packet is passed only if it matches the Hash filter.
- RW
0x0 SAF:
- Source Address Filter Enable. When this bit is set, the MAC compares the
- SA field of the received packets with the values programmed in the
enabled MAC_Address registers. If the comparison fails, the MAC drops the packet. When this bit is reset, the MAC forwards the received packet to the application with updated SAF bit of the Rx Status depending on the SA address comparison. Note: According to the IEEE specification, Bit 47 of the SA is reserved. However, in DWC_xgmac, the MAC compares all 48 bits. The software driver should consider this while programming the MAC address registers for SA.
- RW
0x0 SAIF:
- SA Inverse Filtering. When this bit is set, the Address Check block
operates in the inverse filtering mode for SA address comparison. If the
- SA of a packet matches the values programmed in the MAC_Address
registers, it is marked as failing the SA Address filter. When this bit is reset, if the SA of a packet does not match the values programmed in the MAC_Address registers, it is marked as failing the SA Address filter. 7:6
- RW
0x0 PCF:
- Pass Control Packets. These bits control the forwarding of all control
packets (including unicast and multicast Pause packets). - 00: The MAC filters all control packets from reaching the application. - 01: The MAC forwards all control packets except Pause packets to the application even if they fail the Address filter. - 10: The MAC forwards all control packets to the application even if they fail the Address filter. - 11: The
- MAC forwards the control packets that pass the Address filter. When
- G9991 Ethernet encapsulated mode is enabled, this is true for DFC
control packets (when both OPCODE and TIME field matches it is DFC
- Pause packet and when Type field matches it is DFC generic control
packet). When G9991 native mode is enabled, these bits control the forwarding of DFC PAUSE packets (when both OPCODE and TIME field matches it is DFC Pause packet and the DFC generic control packet definition is not valid in this case as the Type field is not present) as follows: - 00/01: The MAC filters all DFC Pause packets from reaching the application. - 10/11: The MAC forwards all the DFC Pause packets to application.
- RW
0x0 DBF:
- Disable Broadcast Packets. When this bit is set, the AFM module blocks
all incoming broadcast packets. In addition, it overrides all other filter settings. When this bit is reset, the AFM module passes all the received broadcast packets.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 PM:
- Pass All Multicast. When this bit is set, it indicates that all the received
packets with a multicast destination address (first bit in the destination address field is 1) are passed. When this bit is reset, filtering of multicast packet depends on HMC bit.
- RW
0x0 DAIF:
- DA Inverse Filtering. When this bit is set, the Address Check block
operates in inverse filtering mode for the DA address comparison for both unicast and multicast packets. When this bit is reset, normal filtering of packets is performed.
- RW
0x0 HMC:
- Hash Multicast. When this bit is set, the MAC performs the destination
address filtering of received multicast packets according to the hash table. When this bit is reset, the MAC performs the perfect destination address filtering for multicast packets, that is, it compares the DA field with the values programmed in MAC_Address registers.
- RW
0x0 HUC:
- Hash Unicast. When this bit is set, the MAC performs the destination
address filtering of unicast packets according to the hash table. When this bit is reset, the MAC performs a perfect destination address filtering for unicast packets, that is, it compares the DA field with the values programmed in MAC_Address registers.
- RW
0x0 PR:
- Promiscuous Mode. When this bit is set, the Address Filtering module
passes all incoming packets irrespective of the destination or source address. The SA or DA Filter Fails status bits of the Rx Status Word are always cleared when PR is set.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_WD_JB_TIMEOUT_0
- The Watchdog and Jabber Timeout register controls the watchdog timeout limit for received
packets and jabber timeout limit for transmitted packets.
- Offset: 0xc
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

