# 12 -35

- Yes
- No
- No
- No
- OFIF
The output FIFO manager is the last level of VI's path to memory before the memory interface. It commits packets out to memory and makes the decision to drop channels when MCCIF's FIFOs are full. It also keeps track of outstanding requests and emits notifications to the system when important events have happened. OFIF is capable of emitting five different notifications: transfer completion events (frame done, embedded data done, frame partial transfer complete), and error events (frame truncated and frame tossed). These are implemented as ATOMP notifications. OFIF maintains a queue of outstanding transactions that need notification, sending completion events to NOTIFY only when MCCIF reports a write acknowledgment. The queue contains frame IDs and update IDs to be sent along to NOTIFY when the appropriate transaction hits memory. The remaining functionality of OFIF is as a gatekeeper for the memory interface. OFIF can be configured to drop outbound atoms from specific channels when the FIFO's occupancy has reached critical conditions. OFIF also holds housekeeping statistics about FIFO occupancy that can be read at any time.
- Multithreaded FIFO

- Video Input (VI)
To make the most of activate cycles in MC, OFIF batches up outbound requests and attempts to emit multiple atoms from a single surface at once if it can. This behavior is implemented with a multithreaded FIFO, one thread for each surface in each stream, and a set of thresholds that control which channel is output from the FIFO. The VI6 output FIFO groups by stream number, and then by surface. This behavior is similar to the backend processors in VI6 ATOMP. Instead of four-atom boundaries, it operates on boundaries controlled by a programmable address alignment mask (register BATCH_MASK). The boundary can be set from one atom (64 bytes) to 1024 atoms (64 kilobytes). Atoms of a thread are accumulated in the FIFO until at least one of the following conditions is met, upon which atoms are released: A change in address portion masked by register BATCH_MASK hot bits. For example, when
- BATCH_MASK is set to 0xfffffc00 (1kB alignment), if a first atom is at 0x3c0, and a second
atom is at 0x400, then the second atom causes the first atom to be flushed.
- The number of pending atoms reaches the flush threshold. This is derived from register
BATCH_MASK. An atom carrying the last pixel of a line arrives at the FIFO. A frame end (FE) atom arrives at the FIFO. OFIF performs round-robin arbitration between available surfaces; the arbitration grant is held for any given thread until another thread meets the flush conditions described preceding. This can be implemented with an ARBGEN weighted round-robin arbiter.
- Table 7.30 OFIF Flush Threshold
- BATCH_MASK
- Flush threshold (#atoms)
- Flush threshold (#bytes)
xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxx to xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_x100_00 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_1000_00 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxx1_0000_00 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xx10_0000_00 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_x100_0000_0 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_1000_0000_0 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxx1_0000_0000_0 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xx10_0000_0000_0

- Video Input (VI)
- BATCH_MASK
- Flush threshold (#atoms)
- Flush threshold (#bytes)
xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_x100_0000_0000_0 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_1000_0000_0000_0 xxxx_xxxx_xxxx_xxx1_0000_0000_0000_0 to 1000_0000_0000_0000_0000_0000_000 0_0000 The FIFO is sized to store 1335 atoms: 759 of them are reserved for bandwidth disruption, and the other 576 atoms are for batching and DRAM thermal management. Batching and DRAM thermal management are estimated with the following assumptions:
- One stream is outputting YUV full–planar, and five streams are outputting RAW (two planes
with PDAF enabled), for a total of 13 threads. The batch threshold is set to 1 kB.
- During a DRAM outage event, the worst case input is RAW/RGB 8 PPC and the output is a 32
bpp surface (e.g., T_R32* and T_A8R8G8B8). At worst, 36 FEs can arrive or be forced. Each of them becomes an FE atom. OFIF implements a two-level quality-of-service mechanism by using a pair of watermarks. When the amount of space available (in atoms) in the DVFS FIFO goes below a channel's HIGH_WATERMARK, OFIF engages its first quality-of-service limit: packets for frames that have already begun are allowed to proceed, but all packets for any new frames for the channel are discarded. (When a new frame is rejected, a FRAME_TOSSED notification is emitted.) If the amount of space available in the DVFS FIFO continues to fall below a channel's LOW_WATERMARK, OFIF engages its second quality-of-service limit, and truncates the frame in progress on that channel, discarding all further packets for that frame. When this occurs, a FRAME_TRUNCATED notification is emitted. In this fashion, less critical frames can be proactively discarded to ensure that FIFO space exists for channels that are more important.
- Note that the reset values for LOW_WATERMARK and HIGH_WATERMARK are not appropriate for
applications that expect to use the entire DVFS FIFO. In applications that can result in DVFS pauses, both watermarks need to be set to 0 to allow the full DVFS FIFO depth to be used. Applications that need to maintain quality of service may require other settings.
- NOTIFY
The notification engine serves as a mechanism to transmit out-of-band events back to a host. As various events appear from various stages of VI, the notification engine serializes them and stores them for further retrieval by a CPU of some form.
- NOTIFY deals with possible events that VI contends with in a many-camera many-operation
system. Notify is designed to be used in tandem with the Falcon processor (or another real-time

- Video Input (VI)
processor in some applications), allowing the benefits of a real-time application alongside the programmability of a CPU.
- Event Sources
The core element of NOTIFY is the event packet. An event packet's source is described as a tuple of a tag (i.e., the event type), a channel number, and a frame number. (Event packets also sometimes have a payload.) The following event types exist as notification sources: (CSIMUX) Frame start / frame end events. These occur at the beginning and end of the frame, as signaled over CSI2. Since these are the closest to the CSI interface, they may be used to determine A/V sync. An FS event has tag 0, and an FE event has tag 1. (CSIMUX) Frame fault events. These occur when an input error occurs that can be positively associated with a frame. These may be concurrent with frame start or frame end events. The meaning is encoded in the payload. A frame fault event has tag 2. (CSIMUX) Stream fault events. These occur when an input error occurs that cannot be associated with a frame. The meaning is encoded in the payload. A stream fault event has tag 3. (CHANSEL) Start of frame / end of frame / start of embed / end of embed events. These occur at the beginning and end of channel-delimited frames. These events have respective tags 4, 5, 6, and 7. (CHANSEL) Line reached events. These occur when the line timer in CHANSEL expires. This event has tag 8. (CHANSEL) Single-channel fault (with potential embedded frame end). These occur when a fault attached to a single channel occurs. These are described in the CHANSEL section preceding. This event has tag 9 when no frame end is embedded, and 10 when a frame end is embedded. (CHANSEL) Many-channel faults. These are described in the CHANSEL section preceding. These events have tag 11 for no-match, tag 12 for a match collision, tag 13 for short frame, and tag 14 for a load collision. (ATOMP) Surface packer overflow. This event occurs when a single surface packer has overflowed. If this event occurs, contact the VI architecture team. This event has tag 15. (ATOMP) Start of frame / end of frame. These events occur once the NVCSI FS/FE that were matched in CHANSEL have reached ATOMP, and hence delimit when it is safe to reprogram a channel. (If these are merged into simultaneous notifications, then a special variant of an FE event is emitted.) These events have respective tag values of 16 and 17. (ATOMP / OFIF) Frame done / embedded data / PDAF data done. These events occur when a full frame, a full set of embedded data, or the last of phase-detect autofocus data, has been flushed out to memory, and a write ACK has been received from MC. These events have respective tag values of 18, 19, and 23. (ATOMP / OFIF) Frame partial completion. This event occurs when a partial set of lines has been written to memory, and a write ACK has been received. Note that these notifications are applicable only to the main surface. This event has a tag value of 20.

- Video Input (VI)
(ATOMP / OFIF) Frame truncated / frame tossed. These events occur when a frame is interrupted either mid-frame or without writing any data out at all because of memory controller congestion. These events have respective tag values of 21 and 22. (VGPIO) VGPIO interrupt. This event occurs when a VGPIO transitions in a programmed fashion. This event has tag values of 29 and 30. (FML) FM-Lite completion. This event occurs with a focus metric value that has been computed by FM-Lite at the end of a frame. This event has a tag value of 31.
- Processor Transport
As notifications come from the various event sources, they are time-stamped, sorted, and then enqueued in an internal buffer. The buffer is made accessible to processors through registers. The NOTIFY output buffer communicates with Falcon with one interrupt. VI6 NOTIFY does a coarse-grained classification of each event into one of two groups: no-output and normal-priority; it does so by looking only at the tag for each event, as programmed through the classification configuration registers. No-output events, as the name suggests, are always discarded: the equivalent behavior is as if they were never emitted to begin with. Normal-priority events are routed to the output buffer directly; and update a counter of important events that have not yet been processed by host processor.
- The timestamp mechanism uses the global system TSC as a source. To save space in the per-
source staging FIFOs, the full system timestamp is not encoded in each entry; only the 18 least significant bits are encoded in each FIFO entry, resulting in a maximum residency of 8ms in the input FIFO. To sort them at pop time, the LSB-encoded timestamp is subtracted from the LSBs of the current system timestamp, and the largest value is the oldest. (The full system timestamp of the event is similarly reconstructed at pop time.) It is crucial that a notification is read out in time. If a notification stays in the FIFO too long (> 8ms), then encoded 18-bit timestamp overflows and VI hardware fails to send out notification in correct order and thus fail system operation. Timestamp overflow is reported to VI master error and as an uncorrectable error to HSM. Intermediate per-source FIFOs are sized based on the maximum reasonable number of consecutive notifications that they can produce. Since a single intermediate FIFO overflowing is considered catastrophic, it is important that potentially high-volume notification sources can withstand bursts from other notification sources that may also be producing errors. The procedure to read from the readout FIFO is to first read from VI_NOTIFY_FIFO_TAG, which pops an entry from the FIFO into _TAG, _TIMESTAMP, _DATA, and _EXT_DATA and returns the popped entry; then, read the remaining data from _TIMESTAMP, _DATA, and _EXT_DATA.
- When every time a notification tagged as high-priority is pushed to the read-out FIFO, VI
increments a counter. The counter is available to be read in VI_NOTIFY_HIGHPRIO; writing a value to _HIGHPRIO subtracts that amount from the counter (clamping at zero). The NOTIFY interrupt request line is asserted as long as there are entries in the read-out FIFO; as soon as the last entry is

- Video Input (VI)
read (i.e., it is popped out with a read to VI_NOTIFY_FIFO_TAG), the NOTIFY interrupt line is deasserted. It is an error for any intermediate source FIFO to overflow; this error is signaled by setting the
- NOTIFY_FIFO_OVERFLOW bit in the VI master error register, which triggers a VI master error
interrupt as a result.
- Falcon
As mentioned preceding, VI6 has a Falcon microprocessor to process notification events. Special hardware peripherals interface the Falcon to VI6's register file and to the rest of the system. The Falcon is responsible for managing channel state in the pipeline and for communicating frame completion state to the rest of the system. The Falcon presents to the system programmer an interface that processes a list of frames. The general model of the Falcon, as described preceding, is a list of frames to be processed on a channel. A frame generally consists of a basic set of registers (for instance match registers, data- type registers, and destination registers), and a set of events that constitute frame success or failure. When the final disposition of a frame has been decided upon, i.e., whether it succeeded or failed, a frame contains a list of actions for each case. Actions can be incrementing a Host1x syncpt through the sync point shim, incrementing a GPU semaphore, raising a system interrupt, or other internal events.
- Virtualization and Security Requirements
The SoC supports an environment in which multiple operating systems can coexist. As a result, VI is virtualized; multiple guest operating systems (i.e., virtual machines) may individually request channels on VI, and each guest is isolated from the others.
- VGPIO
VI provides for six programmable GPIOs to control various aspects of the camera system and all of them may be configured as either I/O or PWM.
- Table 7.31 VGP1-VGP6 Functions
- GPIO
- Function A
- Function B
- Function C
- VGP1
I/O
- PWM
- XVS[0-2] / XHS[0-2]
- VGP2
I/O
- PWM
- XVS[0-2] / XHS[0-2]
- VGP3
I/O
- PWM
- XVS[0-2] / XHS[0-2]
- VGP4
I/O
- PWM
- XVS[0-2] / XHS[0-2]
- VGP5
I/O
- PWM
- XVS[0-2] / XHS[0-2]

- Video Input (VI)
- GPIO
- Function A
- Function B
- Function C
- VGP6
I/O
- PWM
- XVS[0-2] / XHS[0-2]
The Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) unit generates a series of 128 identical pulses. The unit may use any of the (VGP1-6) pins as an output, provided that the unit is enabled and the pin is configured to carry PWM data. A pulse's length (in clock cycles), duty cycle and starting polarity are programmable. A single pulse can take between 2 and 32 clock cycles, where a high or low level is no more than 16 cycles long. XVS[0-2] and XHS[0-2] are video synchronization signals generated by SYNCGEN.
- The PWM and SYNCGEN units use VI_CONST_CLK. True to its name, VI_CONST_CLK is constant,
but VI_CLK can be dynamically scaled; this allows for consistent output frequencies, even as the rest of the system is reconfigured. A series is always 128 times the length of a single pulse. Once the unit is enabled, a series can be either generated once, a set number of times, or repeatedly until the unit is disabled. Any interrupts configured for VGP pins result in an interrupt being generated for the Falcon.
- XVS[0-2] / XHS[0-2] are muxed with VGPIO internally in VI (controlled by
PIN_OUTPUT_SELECT_VGP*).
- SLVS-EC SYNCGEN
As it was no longer required, the SLVSEC camera interface is not present. However, the related SYCNGEN module is still kept in VI6, because it provides an alternative way to generate some accurate periodic pulses. VI6 has three SYNCGEN instances, and as such, drives out three pairs of synchronization signals (namely, XVS0/XHS0, XVS1/XHS1, and XVS2/XHS2). It can then drive up to three different timing patterns to image sensors.
- INCK
- Input clock to image sensor
- XVS
- Vertical sync signal transmitted to sensor, active low
- XHS
- Horizontal sync signal transmitted to sensor, active low
- HCLK
- Internal generated horizontal scan clock
- Second VI Instance
A second VI instance is is available in some variants, allowing up to 72 VI channels, and providing redundancy for some use cases.

- Video Input Registers
As shown in preceding diagram, each of the VI instance has its own host1x i/f (for THI/2HI) and AXI i/f (for Falcon/pipeline). The output six streams from NVCSI are routed to both VIs’ input, Software should take care of the CSIMUX setting to allow two VI instances processing different NVCSI streams. The NVCSI streams can be terminated at the CSIMUX input for each VI instance by programming VI_CSIMUX_INPUT_STREAM_MUX_0 if necessary. The two VI instances share same VI clock / FLCG from CAR. But the reset signal is separated hence each one can be put into reset state individually.
#### 7.2.2.3 Video Input Registers
##### 7.2.2.3.1 General VI Registers
- VI_EC_FEATURE_0
- Offset: 0xc00
- Byte Offset: 0x3000
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- Video Input Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00440003 (0b0000,0000,0100,0100,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0011)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

