# 13 :12

- RW
0x0 RWTU:
- Receive Interrupt Watchdog Timer Count Units. This fields indicates
the number of system clock cycles corresponding to one unit in RWT field. - 2'b00: 256 - 2'b01: 512 - 2'b10: 1024 - 2'b11: 2048 For example, when RWT=2 and RWTU=1, the watchdog timer is set for 2*512=1024 system clock cycles. 11:8
- RO
0x0 Reserved_11_8: Reserved. 7:0
- RW
0x0 RWT:
- Receive Interrupt Watchdog Timer Count. This bit indicates the
number of system clock cycles, multiplied by factor indicated in RWTU field, for which the watchdog timer is set. The watchdog timer is triggered with the programmed value after the Rx DMA completes the transfer of a packet for which the RI bit is not set in the
- DMA_CH8_Status register, because the Interrupt Enable bit in the
corresponding descriptor RDES3[30] is reset. When the watchdog timer runs out, the RI bit is set and the timer is stopped. The watchdog timer is reset when the RI bit is set high because of automatic setting of RI as per the Interrupt Enable bit RDES3[30] of any received packet.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_CH8_DMA_CH8_CURRENT_APP_TXDESC_L_0
The Channel8 Current Application Transmit Descriptor High register has the lower 32 bits of the current address of the Transmit descriptor read by the DMA. The upper 32 address bits of the
- Current Transmit Descriptor are equal to the value written in the
DMA_CH8_TxDesc_List_HAddress. Therefore, the upper address bits are not given in the register map.
- Offset: 0x3544
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

