# 14 :13

- RW
0x0 TSE_MODE:
- TSE Mode - 00: TSO/USO (segmentation functionality is enabled). In this
mode, the setting of TSE bit enables the TSO/USO segmentation. - 01:
- UFO with Checksum (UDP Fragmentation over IPv4 with Checksum). In
this mode, the setting of TSE bit enables the UDP fragmentation functionality with Checksum for all the UDP packets. - 10: UFO without
- Checksum (UDP Fragmentation over IPv4 with Checksum). In this mode,
the setting of TSE bit enables the UDP fragmentation functionality without Checksum for all the UDP packets. - 11: Reserved
- RW
0x0 TSE:
- TCP Segmentation Enabled When this bit is set, the DMA performs the
- TCP segmentation or UDP Segmentation/Fragmentation for packets in
this channel. The TCP segmentation or UDP packet's segmentation/
- Fragmentation is done only for those packets for which the TSE bit
(TDES0[19]) is set in the Tx Normal descriptor.When this bit is set, the TxPBL value must be greater than 4. 11:5
- RO
0x0 Reserved_11_5: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 OSF:
- Operate on Second Packet When this bit is set, it instructs the DMA to
process the second packet of the Transmit data even before the status for the first packet is obtained. 3:1
- RW
0x0 TCW:
- Transmit Channel Weight This field indicates the weight assigned to the
corresponding Transmit channel. When reset is complete, this field is set to 0 for all channels by default, resulting in equal weights to all channels.
- RW
0x0 ST:
- Start or Stop Transmission Command When this bit is set, transmission is
placed in the Running state. The DMA checks the Transmit list at the current position for a packet to be transmitted. The DMA tries to acquire descriptor from either of the following positions: - The current position in the list This is the base address of the Transmit list set by the
- DMA_CH0_TxDesc_List_Address register. - The position at which the
transmission was previously stopped If the DMA does not own the current descriptor, the transmission enters the Suspended state and the TBU bit of the DMA_CH0_Status register is set. The Start Transmission command is effective only when the transmission is stopped. If the command is issued before setting the DMA_CH0_TxDesc_List_Address register, the
- DMA behavior is unpredictable. When this bit is reset, the transmission
process is placed in the Stopped state after completing the transmission of the current packet. The Next Descriptor position in the Transmit list is saved, and it becomes the current position when the transmission is restarted. To change the list address, you need to program
- DMA_CH0_TxDesc_List_Address register with a new value when this bit is
reset. The new value is considered when this bit is set again. The stop transmission command is effective only when the transmission of the current packet is complete or the transmission is in the Suspended state.
- EQOS_EQOS_DMA_CH6_DMA_CH6_RX_CONTROL_0
The DMA Channel<i> Receive Control register controls the Rx features such as PBL, buffer size, and extended status.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Offset: 0x1408
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 RPF:
- Rx Packet Flush. - 1: DWC_ether_qos automatically flushes the packet
from the Rx Queues destined to this DMA Rx Channel, when it is stopped. When this bit remains set and the DMA is re-started by the software driver, the packets residing in the Rx Queues that were received when this RxDMA was stopped, are flushed out. The packets that are received by the MAC after the RxDMA is re-started are routed to the RxDMA. The flushing is done on the Read side of the Rx Queue. - 0:
- DWC_ether_qos does not flush the packet in the Rx Queue destined to
this RxDMA Channel when it is in STOP state. This might cause head-of- line blocking in the corresponding RxQueue. Note: The stopping of packet flow from a Rx DMA Channel to the application by setting RPF works only when there is one-to-one mapping of Rx Queue to Rx DMA channels. In Dynamic mapping mode, setting RPF bit in any
- DMA_CH(#i)_Rx_Control register might flush packets from unintended
Rx Queues which are destined to the stopped Rx DMA Channel. 30:28
- RO
0x0 Reserved_30_28: Reserved. 27:24
- RW
0x0 RQOS:
- Rx AXI4 QOS. This field is used to drive arqos_m_o[3:0] or
awqos_m_o[3:0] output signals for all transactions of DMA Rx Channel0.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_23: Reserved.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_ERIC: Reserved. 21:16
- RW
0x0 RxPBL:
- Receive Programmable Burst Length These bits indicate the maximum
number of beats to be transferred in one DMA block data transfer. The
- DMA always attempts max burst as specified in PBL each time it starts a
burst transfer on the application bus. You can program PBL with any of the following values: 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, or 32. Any other value results in undefined behavior. To transfer more than 32 beats, perform the following steps: 1. Set the 8xPBL mode in the DMA_CH0_Control register. 2. Set the RxPBL. Note: The maximum value of RxPBL must be less than or equal to half the Rx Queue size (RQS field of
- MTL_RxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode register) in terms of beats. This is
required so that the Rx Queue has space to store at least another Rx PBL worth of data while the Rx DMA is transferring a block of data. For example, in 64-bit data width configurations the total locations in Rx
- Queue of size 512 bytes is 64, so RxPBL and 8xPBL needs to be
programmed to less than or equal to 32.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15: Reserved.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

