# 14 :12

- RW
0x4 PCIE_CAP_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY:
- L0s Exit Latency. This field indicates the L0s exit latency for the given PCI
- Express Link. The value reported indicates the length of time this Port
requires to complete transition from L0s to L0. If L0s is not supported, the value is undefined; however, see the Implementation Note "Potential Issues
- With Legacy Software When L0s is Not Supported" in section 5.4.1.1 of PCI
- Express Base Specification for the recommended value. Note: Exit
latencies may be influenced by PCI Express reference clock configuration depending upon whether a component uses a common or separate reference clock. Multi-Function Devices associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all functions. There are two each of these register fields, this one and a shadow one at the same address. The Common Clock bit (PCIE_CAP_COMMON_CLK_CONFIG) of the Link Control Register (LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG) determines which one is used by the controller and which one is accessed by a read request. Common Clock operation is supported (possible) in the controller when one or more of the following expressions is true: - CX_NFTS ! =CX_COMM_NFTS - DEFAULT_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY ! =DEFAULT_COMM_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY - DEFAULT_L1_EXIT_LATENCY ! =DEFAULT_COMM_L1_EXIT_LATENCY Common Clock operation is enabled in the controller when you set the Common Clock bit (PCIE_CAP_COMMON_CLK_CONFIG) of the Link Control Register (LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG). The assertion of CS2 (that is, assert the dbi_cs2 input, or the CS2 address bit for the AXI bridge) is required to write to the shadow field at this location. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 11:10
- RW
0x3 PCIE_CAP_ACTIVE_STATE_LINK_PM_SUPPORT:
- Active State Power Management (ASPM) Support. This field indicates the
level of ASPM supported on the given PCI Express Link. For more details on
- ASPM support requirements, see section 5.4.1 of PCI Express Base
- Specification. Multi-Function devices associated with an Upstream Port
must report the same value in this field for all functions. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 9:4
- RW
0x8 PCIE_CAP_MAX_LINK_WIDTH:
- Maximum Link Width. This field indicates the maximum Link width (xN -
corresponding to N Lanes) implemented by the component. This value is permitted to exceed the number of Lanes routed to the slot (Downstream
- Port), adapter connector (Upstream Port), or in the case of component-to-
component connections, the actual wired connection width. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. Multi-Function devices associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all functions. In M-PCIe mode, the reset and dynamic values of this field are calculated by the controller. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 3:0
- RW
0x4 PCIE_CAP_MAX_LINK_SPEED:
- Max Link Speed. This field indicates the maximum Link speed of the
associated Port. The encoded value specifies a bit location in the
- Supported Link Speeds Vector (in the Link Capabilities 2 register) that
corresponds to the maximum Link speed. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. Multi-Function Devices associated with an
- Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all functions. In
M-PCIe mode, the reset and dynamic values of this field are calculated by the controller. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: -
- Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This
register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- PCIE_X<j>_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG_0
where <j> = 4, 8. Description:This register controls and provides information about PCI Express Link specific parameters.
- PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG_0
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG_0
- Offset: 0x80
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x10110000 (0b0001,0000,0001,0001,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_LINK_AUTO_BW_STATUS:
- Link Autonomous Bandwidth Status. This bit is set by hardware to indicate
that hardware has autonomously changed Link speed or width, without the Port transitioning through DL_Down status, for reasons other than to attempt to correct unreliable Link operation. This bit must be set if the
- Physical Layer reports a speed or width change was initiated by the
Downstream component that was indicated as an autonomous change.
- The write value is gated with the PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP field in
- LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG. This bit is not applicable and is Reserved for
- Endpoints, PCI Express-to-PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream Ports of
- Switches. For functions that do not implement the Link Bandwidth
- Notification Capability, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: The
access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: RSVDP - Dbi: R
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_MAN_STATUS:
- Link Bandwidth Management Status. This bit is set by hardware to
indicate that either of the following has occurred without the Port transitioning through DL_Down status: - A Link retraining has completed following a write of 1b to the Retrain Link bit. Note: This bit is set following any write of 1b to the Retrain Link bit, including when the Link is in the process of retraining for some other reason. - Hardware has changed Link speed or width to attempt to correct unreliable Link operation, either through an LTSSM timeout or a higher level process. This bit must be set if the Physical Layer reports a speed or width change was initiated by the
- Downstream component that was not indicated as an autonomous
change. This bit is not applicable and is Reserved for Endpoints, PCI
- Express-to-PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream Ports of Switches. For
functions that do not implement the Link Bandwidth Notification
- Capability, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. The default value of this
bit is 0b. The write value is gated with the PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP field in LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: RSVDP - Dbi: R

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_DLL_ACTIVE:
- Data Link Layer Link Active. This bit indicates the status of the Data Link
- Control and Management State Machine. It returns a 1b to indicate the
- DL_Active state, 0b otherwise. This bit must be implemented if the Data
- Link Layer Link Active Reporting Capable bit is 1b. Otherwise, the
controller hardwires it to 0b.
- RW
0x1 PCIE_CAP_SLOT_CLK_CONFIG:
- Slot Clock Configuration. This bit indicates that the component uses the
same physical reference clock that the platform provides on the connector. If the device uses an independent clock irrespective of the presence of a reference clock on the connector, this bit must be clear. For a Multi-Function Device, each Function must report the same value for this bit. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire:
- HWINIT - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_LINK_TRAINING:
- Link Training. This read-only bit indicates that the Physical Layer LTSSM is
in the Configuration or Recovery state, or that 1b was written to the
- Retrain Link bit but Link training has not yet begun. Hardware clears this
bit when the LTSSM exits the Configuration/Recovery state. This bit is not applicable and Reserved for Endpoints, PCI Express to PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream Ports of Switches, and the controller hardwires it to 0b. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: RSVDP - Dbi: R
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_26: Reserved for future use. 25:20
- RO
0x1 PCIE_CAP_NEGO_LINK_WIDTH:
- Negotiated Link Width. This field indicates the negotiated width of the
given PCI Express Link. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. The value in this field is undefined when the Link is not up. 19:16
- RO
0x1 PCIE_CAP_LINK_SPEED:
- Current Link Speed. This field indicates the negotiated Link speed of the
given PCI Express Link. The encoded value specifies a bit location in the
- Supported Link Speeds Vector (in the Link Capabilities 2 register) that
corresponds to the current Link speed. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. The value in this field is undefined when the Link is not up. 15:14
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_DRS_SIGNALING_CONTROL:
- DRS Signaling Control. Indicates the mechanism used to report reception
of a DRS message. Must be implemented for Downstream Ports with the
- DRS Supported bit Set in the Link Capabilities 2 Register. Encodings are: If
- DRS Supported is set, receiving a DRS Message will set DRS Message
- Received in the Link Status 2 Register but will otherwise have no effect If
the DRS Message Received bit in the Link Status 2 Register transitions from 0 to 1, and either MSI or MSI-X is enabled, an MSI or MSI-X interrupt is generated using the vector in Interrupt Message Number (section 7.5.3.2) If the DRS Message Received bit in the Link Status 2 Register transitions from 0 to 1, the Port must send an FRS Message Upstream with the FRS Reason field set to DRS Message Received. Behavior is undefined if this field is set to 10b and the FRS Supported bit in the
- Device Capabilities 2 Register is Clear. Behavior is undefined if this field is
set to 11b. For Downstream Ports with the DRS Supported bit clear in the
- Link Capabilities 2 register, the controller hardwires this field to 00b. This
field is Reserved for Upstream Ports. 13:12
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_12: Reserved for future use.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_LINK_AUTO_BW_INT_EN:
- Link Autonomous Bandwidth Management Interrupt Enable. When set,
this bit enables the generation of an interrupt to indicate that the Link
- Autonomous Bandwidth Status bit has been set. The write value is gated
with the PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP field in LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG.
- This bit is not applicable and is Reserved for Endpoints, PCI Express-to-
- PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream Ports of Switches. For functions that do
not implement the Link Bandwidth Notification Capability, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG.PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP ?
- RW : RO - Dbi: LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG.PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP ?
- RW : RO
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_MAN_INT_EN:
- Link Bandwidth Management Interrupt Enable. When set, this bit enables
the generation of an interrupt to indicate that the Link Bandwidth
- Management Status bit has been set. The write value is gated with the
- PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP field in LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG. This bit is
not applicable and is Reserved for Endpoints, PCI Express-to-PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream Ports of Switches. For functions that do not implement the Link Bandwidth Notification Capability, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG.PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP ?
- RW : RO - Dbi: LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG.PCIE_CAP_LINK_BW_NOT_CAP ?
- RW : RO
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_HW_AUTO_WIDTH_DISABLE:
- Hardware Autonomous Width Disable. When set, this bit disables
hardware from changing the Link width for reasons other than attempting to correct unreliable Link operation by reducing Link width. For a Multi-
- Function Device associated with an Upstream Port, the bit in Function 0 is
of type RW, and only Function 0 controls the component's Link behavior. In all other Functions of that device, this bit is of type RsvdP. For components that do not implement the ability autonomously to change
- Link width, the ciontroller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: The access
attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R/W - Dbi: R/W
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_EN_CLK_POWER_MAN:
- Enable Clock Power Management. Applicable only for Upstream Ports and
with form factors that support a "Clock Request" (CLKREQ#) mechanism, this bit operates as follows: For a non-ARI Multi-Function Device, power- management-configuration software must only Set this bit if all Functions of the Multi-Function Device indicate a 1b in the Clock Power
- Management bit of the Link Capabilities register. The component is
permitted to use the CLKREQ# signal to power manage Link clock only if this bit is Set for all Functions. For ARI Devices, Clock Power Management is enabled solely by the setting in Function 0. The settings in the other
- Functions always return whatever value software programmed for each,
but otherwise are ignored by the component. The CLKREQ# signal may also be controlled via the L1 PM Substates mechanism. Such control is not affected by the setting of this bit. For Downstream Ports and components that do not support Clock Power Management (as indicated by a 0b value in the Clock Power Management bit of the Link Capabilities register), the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. The write value is gated with the PCIE_CAP_CLOCK_POWER_MAN field in LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire:
- LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG.PCIE_CAP_CLOCK_POWER_MAN ? RWS : ROS -
Dbi: LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG.PCIE_CAP_CLOCK_POWER_MAN ? RWS : ROS Note: This register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_EXTENDED_SYNCH:
- Extended Synch. When set, this bit forces the transmission of additional
- Ordered Sets when exiting the L0s state (see section 4.2.4.5 of PCI
- Express Base Specification) and when in the Recovery state (see section
##### 4.2.6.4.1 of PCI Express Base Specification). This mode provides external
devices (for example, logic analyzers) monitoring the Link time to achieve bit and Symbol lock before the Link enters the L0 state and resumes communication. For Multi-Function devices if any function has this bit set, then the component must transmit the additional Ordered Sets when exiting L0s or when in Recovery.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_COMMON_CLK_CONFIG:
- Common Clock Configuration. When set, this bit indicates that this
component and the component at the opposite end of this Link are operating with a distributed common reference clock. A value of 0b indicates that this component and the component at the opposite end of this Link are operating with asynchronous reference clock. For non-ARI
- Multi-Function Devices, software must program the same value for this bit
in all Functions. If not all Functions are Set, then the component must as a whole assume that its reference clock is not common with the Upstream component. For ARI Devices, Common Clock Configuration is determined solely by the setting in Function 0. The settings in the other Functions always return whatever value software programmed for each, but otherwise are ignored by the component. Components utilize this common clock configuration information to report the correct L0s and L1
- Exit Latencies. After changing the value in this bit in both components on
a Link, software must trigger the Link to retrain by writing a 1b to the Retrain Link bit of the Downstream Port.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_RETRAIN_LINK:
- Retrain Link. A write of 1b to this bit initiates Link retraining by directing
the Physical Layer LTSSM to the Recovery state. If the LTSSM is already in
- Recovery or Configuration, re-entering Recovery is permitted but not
required. If the Port is in DPC when a write of 1b to this bit occurs, the result is undefined. Reads of this bit always return 0b. It is permitted to write 1b to this bit while simultaneously writing modified values to other fields in this register. If the LTSSM is not already in Recovery or
- Configuration, the resulting Link training must use the modified values. If
the LTSSM is already in Recovery or Configuration, the modified values are not required to affect the Link training that's already in progress. This bit is not applicable and is Reserved for Endpoints, PCI Express to PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream Ports of Switches. This bit always returns 0b when read. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: see description - Dbi: see description
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_LINK_DISABLE:
- Link Disable. This bit disables the Link by directing the LTSSM to the
- Disabled state when set; this bit is Reserved on Endpoints, PCI Express to
- PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream Ports of Switches. Writes to this bit are
immediately reflected in the value read from the bit, regardless of actual
- Link state. After clearing this bit, software must honor timing
requirements defined in Section 6.6.1 with respect to the first
- Configuration Read following a Conventional Reset. In a DSP that supports
crosslink, the controller gates the write value with the CROSS_LINK_EN field in PORT_LINK_CTRL_OFF. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: CX_CROSSLINK_ENABLE=1 &&
- PORT_LINK_CTRL_OFF.CROSS_LINK_EN=1||CX_CROSSLINK_ENABLE=0
&& dsp=1 ? RW : RO - Dbi: CX_CROSSLINK_ENABLE=1 &&
- PORT_LINK_CTRL_OFF.CROSS_LINK_EN=1||CX_CROSSLINK_ENABLE=0
&& dsp=1? RW : RO

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_RCB:
- Read Completion Boundary (RCB). Root Ports: Indicates the RCB value for
the Root Port. Refer to section 2.3.1.1 of PCI Express Base Specification for the definition of the parameter RCB. The controller hardwires this bit for a Root Port and returns its RCB support capabilities. Endpoints and
- Bridges: Optionally set by configuration software to indicate the RCB value
of the Root Port Upstream from the Endpoint or Bridge. Refer to Section
#### 2.3.1.1 of PCI Express Base Specification for the definition of the
parameter RCB. Configuration software must only set this bit if the Root
- Port Upstream from the Endpoint or Bridge reports an RCB value of 128
bytes (a value of 1b in the Read Completion Boundary bit). For functions that do not implement this feature, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b.
- Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R/W - Dbi: R/
W
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_2: Reserved for future use. 1:0
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_ACTIVE_STATE_LINK_PM_CONTROL:
- Active State Power Management (ASPM) Control. This field controls the
level of ASPM enabled on the given PCI Express Link. See section 5.4.1.3 of PCI Express Base Specification for requirements on when and how to enable ASPM. Note: "L0s Entry Enabled" enables the Transmitter to enter
- L0s. If L0s is supported, the Receiver must be capable of entering L0s
even when the Transmitter is disabled from entering L0s (00b or 10b).
- ASPM L1 must be enabled by software in the Upstream component on a
- Link prior to enabling ASPM L1 in the Downstream component on that
- Link. When disabling ASPM L1, software must disable ASPM L1 in the
- Downstream component on a Link prior to disabling ASPM L1 in the
- Upstream component on that Link. ASPM L1 must only be enabled on the
Downstream component if both components on a Link support ASPM L1.
- For Multi-Function Devices (including ARI Devices), it is recommended that
software program the same value for this field in all Functions. For non-
- ARI Multi-Function Devices, only capabilities enabled in all Functions are
enabled for the component as a whole. For ARI Devices, ASPM Control is determined solely by the setting in Function0, regardless of Function 0's D-state. The settings in the other Functions always return whatever value software programmed for each, but otherwise are ignored by the component. Software must not enable L0s in either direction on a given
- Link unless components on both sides of the Link each support L0s;
otherwise, the result is undefined.
- PCIE_X<j>_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_DEVICE_CAPABILITIES2_REG_0
where <j> = 4, 8. Description:This register identifies PCI Express device specific capabilities; in addition to the Device Capabilities Register.
- PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_DEVICE_CAPABILITIES2_REG_0
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_DEVICE_CAPABILITIES2_REG_0
- Offset: 0x94
- Read/Write: See table below

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x0001081f (0bx000,0000,xxxx,xx01,0000,1000,0001,1111)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

