# 14 :10 0x0 TTSNS:

- Number of Tx Timestamp Snapshots. This field indicates the number of Tx
- Timestamp Snapshots available in the FIFO. A value equal to the selected depth
of FIFO (2, 4, 8, or 16) indicates that the Tx Timestamp Snapshot FIFO is full. The
- Tx Timestamp Snapshot FIFO is implemented as synchronous FIFO in the CSR
clock domain. This field is incremented along with the Tx Timestamp Snapshot write command to the FIFO. This field is decremented along with the Tx
- Timestamp Snapshot read command (issued when byte 3 or byte 0 of
- MAC_TxTimestamp_Status_Seconds register is read in little or big endian mode
respectively) to the FIFO. If both write and read command is issued simultaneously, this field is not changed. This field is valid only if the "Enable IEEE 1588 Timestamp Support" option is selected. 0x0 TSTRGTERR3:
- Timestamp Target Time Error. This bit is set when the latest target time
programmed in the MAC_PPS3_Target_Time_Seconds and
- MAC_PPS3_Target_Time_Nanoseconds registers has already elapsed. The bit is
also set when the PPS command programmed cannot be executed due to earlier programmed target time has already elapsed. This bit is cleared when the application reads this bit. Access restriction applies. Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 TSTARGT3:
- Timestamp Target Time Reached for Target Time PPS3. When this bit is set, it
indicates that the value of system time is greater than or equal to the value specified in the MAC_PPS3_Target_Time_Seconds and MAC_PPS3_Target_Time_Nanoseconds registers. Access restriction applies.
- Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is
set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 TSTRGTERR2:
- Timestamp Target Time Error. This bit is set when the latest target time
programmed in the MAC_PPS2_Target_Time_Seconds and
- MAC_PPS2_Target_Time_Nanoseconds registers has already elapsed. The bit is
also set when the PPS command programmed cannot be executed due to earlier programmed target time has already elapsed. This bit is cleared when the application reads this bit. Access restriction applies. Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 TSTARGT2:
- Timestamp Target Time Reached for Target Time PPS2. When set, this bit
indicates that the value of system time is greater than or equal to the value specified in the MAC_PPS2_Target_Time_Seconds and MAC_PPS2_Target_Time_Nanoseconds registers. Access restriction applies.
- Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is
set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 TSTRGTERR1:
- Timestamp Target Time Error. This bit is set when the latest target time
programmed in the MAC_PPS1_Target_Time_Seconds and
- MAC_PPS1_Target_Time_Nanoseconds registers has already elapsed. The bit is
also set when the PPS command programmed cannot be executed due to earlier programmed target time has already elapsed. This bit is cleared when the application reads this bit. Access restriction applies. Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is set). Self-set to 1 on internal event.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TSTARGT1:
- Timestamp Target Time Reached for Target Time PPS1. When set, this bit
indicates that the value of system time is greater than or equal to the value specified in the MAC_PPS1_Target_Time_Seconds and MAC_PPS1_Target_Time_Nanoseconds registers. Access restriction applies.
- Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is
set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 TSTRGTERR0:
- Timestamp Target Time Error. This bit is set when the latest target time
programmed in the MAC_PPS0_Target_Time_Seconds and
- MAC_PPS0_Target_Time_Nanoseconds registers has already elapsed. The bit is
also set when the PPS command programmed cannot be executed due to earlier programmed target time has already elapsed. This bit is cleared when the application reads this bit. Access restriction applies. Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 AUXTSTRIG:
- Auxiliary Timestamp Trigger Snapshot. This bit is set high when the auxiliary
snapshot is written to the FIFO. This bit is valid only if the Add IEEE 1588
- Auxiliary Snapshot option is selected. Access restriction applies. Clears on read
(or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 TSTARGT0:
- Timestamp Target Time Reached. When set, this bit indicates that the value of
system time is greater than or equal to the value specified in the
- MAC_PPS0_Target_Time_Seconds and MAC_PPS0_Target_Time_Nanoseconds
registers. Access restriction applies. Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is set). Self-set to 1 on internal event. 0x0 TSSOVF:
- Timestamp Seconds Overflow. When this bit is set, it indicates that the seconds
value of the timestamp (when supporting version 2 format) has overflowed beyond 32'hFFFF_FFFF. Access restriction applies. Clears on read (or write of 1 when RCWE bit in MAC_CSR_SW_Ctrl register is set). Self-set to 1 on internal event.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_TX_TIMESTAMP_STATUS_NANOSECONDS_0
- The MAC_TxTimestamp_Status_Nanoseconds register, along with
- MAC_TxTimestamp_Status_Seconds, gives the 64-bit timestamp captured for the PTP packet
successfully transmitted by the MAC. This value is considered to be read by the application when the last byte of MAC_Tx_Timestamp_Status_Seconds is read. In the little-endian mode, this means bits[31:24] are read; in big-endian mode, bits[7:0] are read. If the application does not read these registers and timestamp of another packet is captured, then either the current timestamp is lost (overwritten) or the new timestamp is lost (dropped), depending on the setting of the TXTSSTSM bit of the MAC_Timestamp_Control register. The status bit TXTSC bit [15] in MAC_Timestamp_Status register is set when the MAC transmitter captures the timestamp.
- Offset: 0xd30
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TXTSSMIS:
- Transmit Timestamp Status Missed. When this bit is set, it indicates one of
the following: - The timestamp of the current packet is ignored if TXTSSTSM bit of the MAC_Timestamp_Control register is reset - The timestamp of the previous packet is overwritten with timestamp of the current packet if TXTSSTSM bit of the MAC_Timestamp_Control register is set. 30:0 0x0 TXTSSLO:
- Transmit Timestamp Status Low. This field contains the 31 bits of the
Nanoseconds field of the Transmit packet's captured timestamp.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_TX_TIMESTAMP_STATUS_SECONDS_0
- The register contains the higher 32 bits of the timestamp (in seconds) captured when a PTP
packet is transmitted.
- Offset: 0xd34
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

