# 14 :5

- RW
0x0 RBSZ:
- Receive Buffer size. This field indicates the size of the Rx buffers specified
in bytes allocated by the software to store the packets the Rx DMA transfers to the host memory. The maximum buffer size is limited to 16K bytes. The buffer size is applicable to payload buffers when split headers are enabled. Note-1: The buffer size must be a multiple of 8 or 16 depending on the bus widths (64 or 128 respectively). This is required even if the value of buffer address pointer is not aligned to bus width. If the buffer size is not a multiple of 8 or 16, it might result into undefined behavior. The LSB bits (2:0, or 3:0) for 64-bit or 128-bit bus width are ignored and the DMA internally takes the LSB bits as all-zero. Therefore, these LSB bits are read-only (RO). Therefore, the maximum values that can be programmed into this field are 0x3FF8 (16376) and 0x3FF0 (16368) in 64-bit and 128-bit configurations, respectively. Note-2: It is recommended to program a minimum size of 256 bytes for better performance. 4:1
- RO
0x0 Reserved_x_1: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 SR:
- Start or Stop Receive. - 1: DMA tries to acquire the descriptor from the
- Receive list and processes the incoming packets. The DMA tries to acquire
descriptor from either of the following positions: -- The current position in the list This is the address set by the DMA_CH3_RxDesc_List_LAddress register. -- The position at which the Rx process was previously stopped If the DMA does not own the current descriptor, the reception is suspended and the RBU bit of the DMA_CH3_Status register is set. The Start Receive command is effective only when the reception is stopped. If the command is issued before setting the DMA_CH3_RxDesc_List_LAddress register, the DMA behavior is unpredictable. - 0: Rx DMA operation is stopped after the transfer of the current packet. The next descriptor position in the
- Receive list is saved, and it becomes the current position after the Rx
process is restarted. The Stop Receive command is effective only when the Rx process is in the Running (waiting for Rx packet) or Suspended state. Similarly, Start Receive command is effective only when the Receive process is in the Stopped state. So, read the RD*S fields in the corresponding channel's DMA_CH3_Debug Status register before writing the SR bit (Start or Stop Receive) in DMA_CH3_RX_Control register.
- Additionally, when RSE and AIE bits of DMA_CH3_Interrupt_Enable
register are set, an interrupt is generated when the Rx DMA is stopped.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_CH3_DMA_CH3_SLOT_FUNCTION_CONTROL_STATUS_0
This register contains the control bits for slot function and its status for Transmit path.
- Offset: 0x328c
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

