# 15 :0 0x0 HADV:

- Hold Advance The maximum time in nanoseconds that can elapse between
issuing a HOLD to the MAC and the MAC ceasing to transmit any preemptable frame that is in the process of transmission or any preemptable frames that are queued for transmission.
- MGBE_DWCXG_MTL_MTL_RXP_CONTROL_STATUS_0
This is the main Control and Status register for Flexible Receive Parser.
- Offset: 0x10a0
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x50ff00ff (0b0101,0000,1111,1111,0000,0000,1111,1111)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 RXPI:
- Rx Parser is Active This status bit is set to 1 when the Rx parser is in
- Active state. This bit can be used as a handshake with the software
when the parser gets disabled/enabled. 30:28
- RO
0x5 PIPE:
- Number of Parallel Instruction Processor Engines support. This field is
read-only. 27:24
- RW
0x0 SNPS_RSVD:
- Synopsys Reserved. All the bits must be set to 0. This field is reserved
for Synopsys Internal use, and must always be set to 0 unless instructed by Synopsys. Setting any bit to 1 might cause unexpected behavior in the IP. 23:16
- RW
0xff NPE:
- Number of Parsable Entries in the Instruction Table. This field
indicates the number of parsable entries in the Instruction Table. This field is used in Rx-Parser logic to detect programming error. If the number of parsed entries for a packet is more than this value, NPEOVIS bit in the MTL_RXP_Interrupt_Control_Status register is set.
- Note: - A value of 0 value implies 1 Instruction. Value of 255 implies

