# 15 :0 0x0 BIT:

- For each Pending bit that is set XUSB has a pending associated
message. bit 0 corresponds to MSI vector 0 bit 1 corresponds to MSI vector 1 bit 2 corresponds to MSI vector 2 bit 3 corresponds to MSI vector 3 bit 4 corresponds to MSI vector 4 bit 5 corresponds to MSI vector 5 bit 6 corresponds to MSI vector 6 bit 7 corresponds to MSI vector 7 0 = DEFAULT T_XUSB_DEV_MSI_QUEUE_0 The MSI_QUEUE register is a private register. It specifies to which virtual channel queue (ISO or NON-ISO) that the MSI message is sent to before being sent out on FPCI bus.

- XUSB DEV Registers
Note: When the MSI message is created, the FPCI wrapper does not know which physical queue to put the MSI message into. The MSI_QUEUE setting determines this on a vector-by-vector basis. If the corresponding bit is set to 1, FPCI wrapper will put that MSI message into the ISO command/ data queue; otherwise by default the message is placed in the NONISO queue. After the MSI message is popped from the ISO/NONISO queue, the settings in FPCICFG_ISOCMD,
- FPCICFG_PASSPW, and FPCICFG_RSPPASSPW apply. Since the XUSB FPCI wrapper, physically, only
contains the NONISO command/data queues (from MCP8x and beyond), the MSI_QUEUE bits must be all set to 0 for all MSI vectors.
- Offset: 0xd8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 BITS:
- The BITS field specifies to which VC queue a particular MSI message will
be sent to. bit 0 corresponds to MSI vector 0 bit 1 corresponds to MSI vector 1 bit 2 corresponds to MSI vector 2 bit 3 corresponds to MSI vector 3 bit 4 corresponds to MSI vector 4 bit 5 corresponds to MSI vector 5 bit 6 corresponds to MSI vector 6 bit 7 corresponds to MSI vector 7 0 = ALL_NONISO 1 = ALL_ISO T_XUSB_DEV_MSI_MAP_0 The MSI_MAP register is used to tell the OS that MSIs are supported in K8 mode. The register is for software information purposes only. This is the per-device HT MSI Capability Block.
- Offset: 0xdc
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0xXX0XXXXX (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

