# 15 :12

- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_COMPLIANCE_PRESET:
- Compliance Preset/De-emphasis. - For 8.0 GT/s and higher Data Rate: This
field sets the Transmitter Preset in Polling.Compliance state if the entry occurred due to the Enter Compliance bit being 1b. The encodings are defined in section 4.2.3.2 of PCI Express Base Specification . Results are undefined if a reserved preset encoding is used when entering
- Polling.Compliance in this way. - For 5.0 GT/s Data Rate: This field sets the
de-emphasis level in Polling.Compliance state if the entry occurred due to the Enter Compliance bit being 1b. - When the Link is operating at 2.5 GT/s, the setting of this field has no effect. Components that support only 2.5
- GT/s speed are permitted to hardwire this field to 0000b. - For a Multi-
- Function Device associated with an Upstream Port, the field in Function 0
is of type RWS, and only Function 0 controls the component's Link behavior. In all other Functions of that device, this field is of type RsvdP. -
- This field is intended for debug and compliance testing purposes. System
firmware and software is allowed to modify this field only during debug or compliance testing. In all other cases, the system must ensure that this field is set to the default value. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R/W (sticky) - Dbi: R/W (sticky) Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_COMPLIANCE_SOS:
- Compliance SOS. When set to 1b, the LTSSM is required to send SKP
- Ordered Sets between sequences when sending the Compliance Pattern or
- Modified Compliance Pattern. For a Multi-Function Device associated with
an Upstream Port, the bit in Function 0 is of type RWS, and only Function 0 controls the component's Link behavior. In all other Functions of that device, this bit is of type RsvdP. This bit is applicable when the Link is operating at 2.5 GT/s or 5.0 GT/s data rates only. For components that support only the 2.5 GT/s speed, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b.
- Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R/W (sticky) -
Dbi: R/W (sticky) Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_ENTER_MODIFIED_COMPLIANCE:
- Enter Modified Compliance. When this bit is set to 1b, the device transmits
- Modified Compliance Pattern if the LTSSM enters Polling.Compliance
substate. Components that support only the 2.5 GT/s speed are permitted to hardwire this bit to 0b. For a Multi-Function Device associated with an
- Upstream Port, the bit in Function 0 is of type RWS, and only Function 0
controls the component's Link behavior. In all other Functions of that device, this bit is of type RsvdP. This bit is intended for debug, compliance testing purposes only. System firmware and software is allowed to modify this bit only during debug or compliance testing. In all other cases, the system must ensure that this bit is set to the default value. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R/W (sticky) - Dbi: R/W (sticky) Note: This register field is sticky. 9:7
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_TX_MARGIN:
- Transmit Margin, This field controls the value of the non-deemphasized
voltage level at the Transmitter pins. This field is reset to 000b on entry to the LTSSM Polling.Configuration substate (see Chapter 4 of PCI Express
- Base Specification for details of how the Transmitter voltage level is
determined in various states). - 001b-111b: As defined in Section 8.3.4 not all encodings are required to be implemented. For a Multi-Function Device associated with an Upstream Port, the field in Function 0 is of type RWS, and only Function 0 controls the component's Link behavior. In all other
- Functions of that device, this field is of type RsvdP. For components that
support only the 2.5 GT/s speed, the controller hardwires this bit to 000b.
- This field is intended for debug, compliance testing purposes only. System
firmware and software is allowed to modify this field only during debug or compliance testing. In all other cases, the system must ensure that this field is set to the default value. Note: This register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_SEL_DEEMPHASIS:
- Selectable De-emphasis. When the Link is operating at 5.0 GT/s speed, this
bit is used to control the transmit de-emphasis of the link in specific situations. For more details, see section 4.2.6 of PCI Express Base
- Specification. When the Link is not operating at 5.0 GT/s speed, the setting
of this bit has no effect. Components that support only the 2.5 GT/s speed are permitted to hardwire this bit to 0b. This bit is not applicable and
- Reserved for Endpoints, PCI Express to PCI/PCI-X bridges, and Upstream
Ports of Switches. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_HW_AUTO_SPEED_DISABLE:
- Hardware Autonomous Speed Disable. When set, this bit disables hardware
from changing the Link speed for device-specific reasons other than attempting to correct unreliable Link operation by reducing Link speed.
- Initial transition to the highest supported common link speed is not
blocked by this bit. For a Multi-Function Device associated with an
- Upstream Port, the bit in Function 0 is of type RWS, and only Function 0
controls the component's Link behavior. In all other Functions of that device, this bit is of type RsvdP. Functions that do not implement the associated mechanism are permitted to hardwire this bit to 0b. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R/W (sticky) - Dbi: R/W (sticky) Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_ENTER_COMPLIANCE:
- Enter Compliance. Software is permitted to force a Link to enter
- Compliance mode (at the speed indicated in the Target Link Speed field
and the de-emphasis/preset level indicated by the Compliance Preset/De- emphasis field) by setting this bit to 1b in both components on a Link and then initiating a hot reset on the Link. Default value of this bit following
- Fundamental Reset is 0b. For a Multi-Function Device associated with an
- Upstream Port, the bit in Function 0 is of type RWS, and only Function 0
controls the component's Link behavior. In all other Functions of that device, this bit is of type RsvdP. Components that support only the 2.5 GT/ s speed are permitted to hardwire this bit to 0b. This bit is intended for debug, compliance testing purposes only. System firmware and software is allowed to modify this bit only during debug or compliance testing. In all other cases, the system must ensure that this bit is set to the default value. Note: This register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

