# 15 :4

- RO
0x0 Reserved_15_4:
- Reserved
- RW
0x0 PDRFIS:
- Packet Dropped due to RF Interrupt Status When the Rx-Parser
requests a packet-drop (by setting RF=1 in the instruction table), this bit is set to 1. This bit is cleared when the software writes 1 to this bit. Access restriction applies. Self-set to 1 on internal event. Clears on write of 1. Writing 0 has no effect.
- RW
0x0 FOOVIS:
- Frame Offset Overflow Interrupt Status During parsing, if the
- Instruction table entry's 'Frame Offset' is found to be more than
- EOF offset, this bit is set. This bit is cleared when the software
writes 1 to this bit. Access restriction applies. Self-set to 1 on internal event. Clears on write of 1. Writing 0 has no effect.
- RW
0x0 NPEOVIS:
- Number of Parsable Entries Overflow Interrupt Status While
parsing, if the number of parsed entries is found to be more than
- NPE[] (Number of Parsable Entries in MTL_RXP_Control register),
this bit is set to 1. This bit is cleared when the application writes 1 to this bit. Access restriction applies. Self-set to 1 on internal event. Clears on write of 1. Writing 0 has no effect.
- RW
0x0 NVEOVIS:
- Number of Valid Entries Overflow Interrupt Status While parsing, if
the instruction address is found to be more than NVE (Number of
- Valid Entries in MTL_RXP_Control register), this bit is set to 1. This
bit is cleared when the software writes 1 to this bit. Access restriction applies. Self-set to 1 on internal event. Clears on write of 1. Writing 0 has no effect.
- MGBE_DWCXG_MTL_MTL_INDIRECT_ACC_CONTROL_STATUS_0
This is Control and Status register to Access MTL indirect registers/tables. For example, Flexible Receive Parser's Instruction-Table/Indirect-Register-Blocks, DMA List indirect registers, and so on.
- Offset: 0x10b0
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 STARTBUSY:
- Indirect Access Busy When this bit is set to 1 by the software, it
indicates to start the Read/Write operation from/to selected ACCSEL.
- Software should read this bit as 0 before issuing read or write request
to access the selected ACCSEL. This field, when set, indicates that
- DWC_xgmac is busy until it is cleared by hardware. Software should not
issue any read or write operation, until this bit is cleared.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

