# 15 8 7 0 .--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----. 0x00 | timestamp[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+


- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
0x02 | timestamp[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x04 | PERFMONID[7:0] | timestamp[39:32] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x06 |0 |0 |0 |DS|PMID[10:8]| SMPLCNT[8:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x08 | count0[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0A | count0[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0C | count1[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x0E | count1[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x10 | count2[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x12 | count2[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x14 | count3[15:0] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x16 | count3[31:16] | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x18 | pm local trigger B count | <-- or TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[15:0] if +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ PMLOCALTRIGB_EN_DISABLE 0x1A | bookmark B | <-- or TOTAL_TRIG_RCV[31:0] if +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ PMLOCALTRIGB_EN_DISABLE 0x1C | pm local trigger A count | +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+ 0x1E | bookmark A |

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
`--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----' Use of local triggers to support VM annotation is described in the Virtualization Support section.
- While other local triggers mechanisms are available in HWPM, triggers occur via access to
PERFMON registers. Access to PERFMON registers from IP microcontroller is not supported. Use of local triggers are limited to IPs running on platforms using a variety VMs over a given period. The following IPs require local triggering:
- VI
- ISP
- PVA
- VIC
- OFA
- NVENC
- NVDLA
##### 9.12.1.4.3 GPU-SOC Cross Triggers
- HWPMs can capture or “snap” PERFMON records globally in memory via trigger signals. These
triggers are local to the performance monitor accumulator (PMA) and described later in this section. There are two separate HWPM subsystems in the SoC. These two subsystems utilize cross triggers for handshaking between the GPU and SoC. This feature benefits two types of tools: 1.
- Periodic Sampling
a. b.
- Enable consistent sampling period
- Improve low frequency sampling avoiding skew and drift between PERFMON systems
- Support low overhead synchronized event-based sampling
c. i.
- Example: system task manager triggers at start and end of each task
2.
- Range Profiling
a. b.
- Allow for asynchronous trigger via GPU command buffer
- Critical for graphics/compute triage of memory system counter
i.
- GPU HWPM path has very poor memory observation at both HSHUB and MSS
To accomplish the required handshake, one HWPM path is the initiator (generate triggers from PMA) and the other HWPM path is the target (receive triggers to PMA). The initiator generates a packet-based trigger where:
- Trigger start packet indicates start capturing performance monitor events in memory
- Trigger stop packet indicates stop capturing performance monitor events in memory

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
Target HWPM path suspends capture of performance monitor events unless trigger is active when it is configured to wait on a trigger. Either SoC or GPU PMA can act as an initiator and cause a trigger to the other PMA. The trigger is accomplished via a write to PMA’s programmable global output trigger register. These bits are directly output from PMA as engine triggers and typically connect to PERFMONs in the HWPM subsystem to generate a global trigger. PMA also supports input triggers to capture records. In GPU, these triggers typically connect to engines utilizing performance monitors to allow multi- engine monitoring controlled by a single engine. One GPU PMA global output trigger is connected to an SoC PMA input engine trigger. Also, one SoC PMA global output trigger is connected to a GPU PMA input engine trigger. Together, these triggers enable cross triggering between HWPM subsystems in both directions. Due to clock synchronization issues on cross trigger input to GPU, there is a potential for metastability within GPU PMA on the engine trigger input path. Therefore, SoC to GPU cross triggering is not available in the SoC. However, GPU to SoC cross triggering is supported and there are no metastability issues in this direction.
- SoC to GPU cross triggering requires triggers be spaced a minimum of 35 LA clock cycles
(625MHz) to avoid potential corruption to trigger counts received.
##### 9.12.1.4.4 SoC PMA Engine Triggers
The HWPM PMA supports up to 64 engine triggers. Each engine can support a 1-bit start, a 1-bit stop, and a 32-bit bookmark. The start and stop signals are passed to the PMA trigger state machine. An engine should pulse the start or stop for one cycle.
- Table 9.95 SoC PMA Engine Triggers
- ENGINE
- START
- STOP
- BOOKMARK
- PMA
- NV_PERF_GLOBAL_TRIGGER_START
- NV_PERF_GLOBAL_TRIGGER_
- START
- Not supported
- GPU-PMA-SYS
- GPU-PMA-SYS-PMA-TRIGGER level
signal passed through clock domain crossing and edge to pulse generator. 0 (tied to ground)
- Not supported
- VI
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not supported
- ISP
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
- PVA
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
- VIC
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
- OFA
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
- NVDEC
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
- NVDLA
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
- ENGINE
- START
- STOP
- BOOKMARK
- MGBE
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
- PCIe
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
- DISPLAY
- PMA_ENGINE_START
- PMA_ENGINE_STOP
- Not Supported
Triggers sourced at the IP level are necessary to support range-based profiling. This requires one or both of the following:
- The ability for the IP microprocessor to generate local triggers
Support via Local Trigger registers start and stop trigger bits as described in the PERFMON
- Local Triggers
- Only saves IP PERFMON records
- Predefined hardware events used to generate engine triggers
- Events may have element of programmability via IP register configuration bits. Events can
be qualified with: - - -
- Trigger arming
- Mode qualifying
- Trigger count
- Saves records of all PERFMONs in the SoC
The PMA trigger system supports per engine start and stop masks to disable specific engines. All engine triggers must be aligned to LA clock and are single active high pulse. Note that for use cases where engine triggers are used in the SoC, it is possible to lose a trigger due to incorrect sizing of split FIFO in the engine trigger path to PMA.
#### 9.12.1.5 Memory Subsystem Single Pass Profiling
- The MSS HWPM path supports single pass performance monitoring where memory bandwidth
statistics are simultaneously collected in three categories:
- CPU traffic
- GPU traffic
- Total traffic
These three categories are not programmable. To implement this capability, MSS contains HWPMs over all memory channels. Using client ID (CGID), associated CPU, GPU and total traffic counters in the channel are incremented appropriately. Each client ID supports the following four counters:
- Bytes read
- Bytes write

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
- Cycles read active
- Cycle write active
Mode C is required to collect all three clients. Either bytes or utilization can be collected from any two clients using Mode E. When collecting this data, it is critical to understand observation enabled by Mode C versus counter width of Mode E. If PERFMONs operate at 1GHz and there are 16
- PERFMONS, then Mode C generates 32 bytes/record x channels x 1GHz / 0xF000 = ~8MB of data
per second, whereas Mode E generates 512 bytes. SoC HWPM can be configured to collect this information via periodic PMA triggers.
- GPU HWPM has access to MSS via wires from MSS to the GPU HWPM mc0 PERFMON, which
requires many two passes x channels for bytes or utilization. This is also supported for GPU tools that support both periodic sampling (PerfInspector, Nsight GPU Trace) and range profiling (Cyclestats, Perfalyze, Nsight Graphics Range Profiler, Nsight Compute Profiler). Periodic sampling generally uses PMA periodic triggers. Range profiling uses asynchronous push buffer methods to generate PMA triggers around a range of GPU work. GPU range profiling can be performed at a GPU device level or for a GPU graphics engine context. In graphics engine context level profiling, the GPU Front End Context Switch (FECS) unit is responsible for freezing the HWPM PM system, draining in flight records, saving the state of the PERFMONS and PMA, and later restoring the state of the PERFMONS and PMA. A GPU range profiler must use both the SoC HWPM and GPU HWPM system to capture MSS counters within the specified asynchronous GPU range. The following sequence describes GPU device level range profiling:
- Reserve HWPM
1.
- Begin Session
a. b.
- Reserve SoC HWPM Device Level
- Reserve GPU HWPM Device Level
- Disable GPU Power Management
[OPTIONAL] Lock GPU Clocks
- Setup GPU HWPM
c. d. e. i.
- Allocate PMA Buffer
- Map PMA Buffer
- Reset PMA
- Set Trigger Mode to Mixed Mode or Fermi Mode
- Bind PMA Buffer
- Reset Trigger Counts
ii. iii. iv. v. vi. f.
- Setup SoC HWPM
i.
- Allocate PMA Buffer

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
ii.
- Map PMA Buffer
- Reset PMA
- Set Trigger Mode to Tesla
- Set Engine Trigger Mask to GPU PMA Engine
- Configure SoC PMA as a cross trigger target. Set PMA to trigger on GPU PMA engine
start triggers. Set the GPU engine for Tesla trigger mode (toggle). This propagates all triggers from GPU PMA SYS pma_trigger to SoC PMA SYS pma_triggers.
- Reset Trigger Counts
iii. iv. v. vi. vii. 2.
- Begin Pass
a.
- GPU
i. Convert PERFMON and perfmux regops to push buffer and/or push methods. b.
- SoC
i.
- Convert PERFMON and perfmux regops to SoC HWPM driver format and execute a
register operation SYSCALL to the SoC HWPM driver to configure units (MC). The tool may choose to keep this configuration for all passes. c.
- Begin Range
i.
- GPU - Push PmTrigger (results in start trigger from graphics engine)
Push any other graphics works. ii. d.
- End Range
i.
- GPU – Push WaitForIdle
GPU – Push PmTrigger (results in start trigger from graphics engine). It is also possible to use end of pipe trigger, but due to need to guarantee isolation and no merged triggers, there is usually a wait for idle and delay between ranges.
- GPU – Push DELAY to ensure EndRange trigger and the next BeginRange trigger does not
merge due to back pressure. Not all PERFMON systems have enough buffering for 2-3 back-to-back triggers. ii. iii. e.
- Repeat (c) Begin Range – (d) End Range
- End Pass
f. i.
- GPU – Push Wait for Idle
This is the end of the frame of work. In the case of APIC based replay or kernel replay, the state of the system is restored to before the frame.
- Process PMA Buffer
ii. iii. a.
- For SoC PMA and GPU PMA
i. This can be done using a CPU/GPU synchronization or from a background thread.
- For GPU use case
ii. a. b.
- CPU PRI write to flush, and CPU PRI read to get buffer
- CPU poll on PRI read value equal memory value
- Process buffer
- CPU PRI write to update PMA buffer bytes processed
c. d.

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
e.
- GPU can be optimized to perform the PRI operations through the push buffer to
avoid SYSCALL overhead. Across multiple frames the PRI operations can be batched to avoid number of SYSCALLs. iii.
- For CPU use case, the same operations are performed through the SoC HWPM
driver. g. h.
- Repeat (b) Begin Pass – (f) End Pass
- End Session
i. Clean-up all operations performed in Begin Session plus all PERFMONS and PERFMUXES. The following sequence describes GPU Context Switched Range Profiling:
- Same as Device Level but Reservation of GPU HWPM is at GPU context level and GPU HWPM
context switch is enabled.
- If a GPU context switch occurs in the middle of a range, then tools extend GPU FECS µcode
to execute a GPU PMA PRI trigger before save and after restore of the target graphics engine context. This generates additional records. The table below shows the PMA records output. Pass 1 has no GPU graphics engine context switch. Pass 2 has a context switch in the middle of range 2. For handling context switching assume that End Range (ii) above will pushes WaitForIdle and PmTrigger (start trigger) for the end of a range. The tool does not push a PmTriggerEnd (to generate a graphics engine end of pipe trigger).
- PASS
- RANGE
- START TRIGGER
- COUNT
- END TRIGGER COUNT
- TOTAL TRIGGER
- COUNT
- Begin 1
- End 1
- Begin 2
- End 2
- Begin 1
- CTXSW save
- CTXSW restore
- End 1
- Begin 2
- End 2
- This requires additional post processing of the GPU (not SoC) PMA Record trigger counts to
determine if GPU context switches occurred during a range or between ranges. In the case of Pass 2 Range 1, a context switch occurred so the tool processes both CPU and GPU records using the TOTAL TRIGGER COUNT == TOTAL_TRIG_RCV as:
- Pass 2 Range 1 Values

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
- Elapsed Cycles = (Record 6 – Record 5) + (Record 8 – 7)
- Counter Values = Record 6 + Record 8
#### 9.12.1.6 Programming Path
##### 9.12.1.6.1 Register Space
Programming of SoC HWPM path registers is accomplished via a common SoC HWPM driver. Registers reside in HWPM blocks outside of the IP. There are four HWPM registers groups:
- PERFMUX (part of IP register space)
- PERFMON
- SYS ROUTER
- PMA
The following table provides information on register group control parameters and register space size. The performance monitor registers lie in a contiguous space due to GPU build script limitations.
- Table 9.96 Performance Monitor Registers
- Information
- Register Space
- PERFMUX
- PERFMON
- SYS ROUTER
- PMA
- Control Functions
- Mux Enable, Selects
- Monitor experiment
parameters
- PERFMON record
streaming control
- Buffer Control,
- Triggers
- Size per space
4B per register 4KB 512B 8KB
- Total Size over IPs
N/A 2MB 4KB 8KB
- Contiguous over IPs
- No
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Programming of the SoC HWPM path occurs prior to starting the use case and collection of
performance statistics. Reprogramming of HWPM registers during the use case is not supported.
##### 9.12.1.6.2 Power Sequencing
Power sequencing for SoC IPs containing HWPMs makes the following assumptions:
- IP containing HWPMs but not involved in profiling may power up or down during performance
monitoring
- IP and HWPM RPG reside in the same physical chiplet
- RPG final output is via split FIFO (supporting CDC and VDC)
- RPG supports IP reset (via IP output clamp) and global HWPM reset (LA clock aligned)

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
The power up/power down sequences below should be followed by all IPs utilizing HWPMs.
- Power up sequence
- For IPs using ASYNC reset
- - - -
- Assert IP reset
- Ungate IP power
- Ungate IP clocks
- Unclamp IP outputs
- For IPs using SYNC reset
- - - -
- Ungate IP power
- Ungate IP clocks
- Assert IP reset
- Unclamp IP outputs
- Power down sequence
- Ensure IP is idle
- Ensure IP performance monitoring is off
- Ensure PERFMON counters are zero
- Reset IP
- Clamp IP outputs
- Gate IP clocks
- Gate IP voltage
- Remove IP reset
Note that RPG logic uses only ASYNC reset flops. RPGs utilize IP power clamps instead of IP resets for resetting RPG flops. This ensures that clamps are always active when clocks start, regardless of IP reset levels.
#### 9.12.1.7 Virtualization Support
- HWPM virtualization support annotates the accelerator’s performance monitor metrics with
information on virtual machine (VM) occupancy of the accelerator over time, as illustrated in the figure below.
**Figure 9.95 IP VM Switch Example**

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
The timeline in the figure shows periodic sampling (PMA_trigger) of an accelerator’s performance counter (accelerator_cntr) and the VM context active on the accelerator (accelerator_vm). The last row (with local_trigger) shows an improved version of the performance counter collection, where an additional global or local trigger occurs on an accelerator context switch, so performance counters can correctly be attributed to a context. Virtual OS support is accomplished via post processing of HWPM records with timestamp and VM switching information from hardware accelerators (IPs). HWPM virtualization support makes the following assumptions:
- Memory buffer exists per IP used to store timestamp, bookmark, and VM switch information
- Buffer read/write accessible by IP firmware and read accessible by SoC HWPM driver
Local trigger support exists in IP to cause writes of IP performance metric record to memory
- IP contains a microprocessor (Falcon or Cortex-R5) and has access to global timer (TSC)
The following steps outline the IP sequence to support VM annotation to PERFMON records:
- IP completes processing of context A
IP signals a local trigger to PERFMONs. Generate trigger event via:
- IP microprocessor (Falcon or Cortex-R5) write to “local trigger register”
- -
- Sets bookmark
- Toggles trigger
- PERFMON record snapped to memory via local trigger
- See the Performance Trigger Considerations section for local trigger description
- IP microprocessor (Falcon or Cortex-R5) reads TSC
- IP microprocessor determines next VM context to run
IP writes a record to “IP timestamp buffer” with the following information:
- Timestamp (TSC value)
If the event is a switch event, then the event contains an identifier for the old VM context and an identifier for the new VM context.
- If the event is a range event, then start and end events contain an identifier for the VM
context. This generates 2x the number of events as a switch event. 16-bit bookmark value that corresponds to local trigger bookmark.
- IP starts processing context B
Using the context switch information in the IP VM switch buffer, it is possible to annotate performance metrics with “current VM” information by aligning performance record metric bookmarks with those in the IP VM switch buffer. Local triggers enable performance metric post processing to associate precise performance metric counts with a VM since the count is written to memory using the local trigger. Estimating the performance metric counts is possible by using the records of the periodic samples that happen before and after the timestamp associated with the VM switch by assigning counts using ratio of time differences between the timestamps of the two periodic samples and the VM switch

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
timestamp. However, accuracy cannot be guaranteed since this approach assumes similar performance utilization between VMs.

