# 17 :16

- RW
0x0 INTM: Interrupt Mode This field defines the interrupt mode of DWC_ether_qos.
- The behavior of the following outputs change depending on the following
settings: - sbd_perch_tx_intr_o[] (Transmit Per Channel Interrupt) - sbd_perch_rx_intr_o[] (Receive Per Channel Interrupt) - sbd_intr_o (Common Interrupt) It also changes the behavior of the RI/TI bits in the
- DMA_CH0_Status. - 00: sbd_perch_* are pulse signals for each TX/RX
packet transfer completion events (irrespective of whether corresponding interrupts are enabled) for which IOC bits are enabled in descriptor. sbd_intr_o is also asserted when corresponding interrupts are enabled and cleared only when software clears the corresponding RI/TI status bits.
- 01: sbd_perch_* are level signals asserted on TX/RX packet transfer
completion event when corresponding interrupts are enabled and de- asserted when the software clears the corresponding RI/TI status bits.
- The sbd_intr_o is not asserted for these TX/RX packet transfer
completion events. - 10: sbd_perch_* are level signals asserted on TX/RX packet transfer completion event when corresponding interrupts are enabled and de-asserted when the software clears the corresponding RI/
- TI status bits. However, the signal is asserted again if the same event
occurred again before it was cleared. The sbd_intr_o is not asserted for these TX/RX packet transfer completion events. - 11: Reserved For more details, see Table "DWC_ether_qos Transfer Complete Interrupt Behavior".
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15: Reserved. 14:12
- RO
0x0 Reserved_PR: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 TXPR:
- Transmit Priority When set, this bit indicates that the Tx DMA has higher
priority than the Rx DMA during arbitration for the system-side bus or
- Descriptor reads from DCACHE memory when DWC_EQOS_DCEXT is
enabled
- RW
0x0 SCSW:
- SCSW is Synopsys Reserved, This field must be set to "0". This field is
reserved for Synopsys Internal use, and must always be set to "0" unless instructed by Synopsys. Setting this field to "1" might cause unexpected behavior in the IP.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_ARBC: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 DSPW:
- Descriptor Posted Write When this bit is set to - 0: The descriptor writes
are always non-posted. - 1: The descriptor writes are non-posted only when IOC (Interrupt on completion) is set in last descriptor. Otherwise, the descriptor writes are always posted. 7:5
- RO
0x0 Reserved_7_5: Reserved. 4:2
- RW
0x0 TAA:
- Transmit Arbitration Algorithm This field is used to select the arbitration
algorithm for the Transmit side when multiple Tx DMAs are selected.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_DA: Reserved.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 SWR:
- Software Reset When this bit is set, the MAC and the DMA controller
reset the logic and all internal registers of the DMA, MTL, and MAC. This bit is automatically cleared after the reset operation is complete in all
- DWC_ether_qos clock domains. Before reprogramming any
- DWC_ether_qos register, a value of zero should be read in this bit. This bit
must be read at least 4 CSR clock cycles after it is written to 1. Note: The reset operation is complete only when all resets in all active clock domains are de-asserted. Therefore, it is essential that all PHY inputs clocks (applicable for the selected PHY interface) are present for software reset completion. The time to complete the software reset operation depends on the frequency of the slowest active clock. Access restriction applies. Setting 1 sets. Self-cleared. Setting 0 has no effect.
- EQOS_EQOS_DMA_DMA_SYSBUS_MODE_0
The System Bus mode register controls the behavior of the AHB or AXI master. It mainly controls burst splitting and number of outstanding requests.
- Offset: 0x1004
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x01010000 (0b0000,0001,0000,0001,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 EN_LPI:
- Enable Low Power Interface (LPI) When set to - 1: This bit enables
the LPI mode supported by the EQOS-AXI configuration and accepts the LPI request from the AXI System Clock controller. - 0: This bit disables the LPI mode. Denies the LPI request from the AXI System Clock controller.
- RW
0x0 LPI_XIT_PKT:
- Unlock on Magic Packet or Remote Wake-Up Packet When set to 1,
this bit enables the AXI master to come out of the LPI mode only when the magic packet or remote wake-up packet is received.
- When set to 0, this bit enables the AXI master to come out of the
LPI mode when any packet is received.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_29_y: Reserved. 28:24
- RW
0x1 WR_OSR_LMT:
- AXI Maximum Write Outstanding Request Limit This value limits the
maximum outstanding request on the AXI write interface. Maximum outstanding requests = WR_OSR_LMT + 1 Note: - Bit 26 is reserved if DWC_ETHER_QOS_AXI_MAX_WR_REQ = 4 - Bit 27 is reserved if
- DWC_ETHER_QOS_AXI_MAX_WR_REQ!= 16

