# 17 :15

- RW
0x6 PCIE_CAP_L1_EXIT_LATENCY:
- L1 Exit Latency. This field indicates the L1 exit latency for the given PCI
- Express Link. The value reported indicates the length of time this Port
requires to complete transition from ASPM L1 to L0. If ASPM L1 is not supported, the value is undefined. Note: Exit latencies may be influenced by PCI Express reference clock configuration depending upon whether a component uses a common or separate reference clock. Multi-Function
- Devices associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in
this field for all functions. There are two each of these register fields, this one and a shadow one at the same address. The Common Clock bit (PCIE_CAP_COMMON_CLK_CONFIG) of the Link Control Register (LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG) determines which one is used by the controller and which one is accessed by a read request. Common Clock operation is supported (possible) in the controller when one or more of the following expressions is true: - CX_NFTS !=CX_COMM_NFTS -
- DEFAULT_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY !=DEFAULT_COMM_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY -
- DEFAULT_L1_EXIT_LATENCY !=DEFAULT_COMM_L1_EXIT_LATENCY
- Common Clock operation is enabled in the controller when you set the
- Common Clock bit (PCIE_CAP_COMMON_CLK_CONFIG) of the Link Control
- Register (LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG). The assertion of CS2 (that
is, assert the dbi_cs2 input, or the CS2 address bit for the AXI bridge) is required to write to the shadow field at this location. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 14:12
- RW
0x4 PCIE_CAP_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY:
- L0s Exit Latency. This field indicates the L0s exit latency for the given PCI
- Express Link. The value reported indicates the length of time this Port
requires to complete transition from L0s to L0. If L0s is not supported, the value is undefined; however, see the Implementation Note "Potential Issues
- With Legacy Software When L0s is Not Supported" in section 5.4.1.1 of PCI
- Express Base Specification for the recommended value. Note: Exit
latencies may be influenced by PCI Express reference clock configuration depending upon whether a component uses a common or separate reference clock. Multi-Function Devices associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all functions. There are two each of these register fields, this one and a shadow one at the same address. The Common Clock bit (PCIE_CAP_COMMON_CLK_CONFIG) of the Link Control Register (LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG) determines which one is used by the controller and which one is accessed by a read request. Common Clock operation is supported (possible) in the controller when one or more of the following expressions is true: - CX_NFTS ! =CX_COMM_NFTS - DEFAULT_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY ! =DEFAULT_COMM_L0S_EXIT_LATENCY - DEFAULT_L1_EXIT_LATENCY ! =DEFAULT_COMM_L1_EXIT_LATENCY Common Clock operation is enabled in the controller when you set the Common Clock bit (PCIE_CAP_COMMON_CLK_CONFIG) of the Link Control Register (LINK_CONTROL_LINK_STATUS_REG). The assertion of CS2 (that is, assert the dbi_cs2 input, or the CS2 address bit for the AXI bridge) is required to write to the shadow field at this location. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 11:10
- RW
0x3 PCIE_CAP_ACTIVE_STATE_LINK_PM_SUPPORT:
- Active State Power Management (ASPM) Support. This field indicates the
level of ASPM supported on the given PCI Express Link. For more details on
- ASPM support requirements, see section 5.4.1 of PCI Express Base
- Specification. Multi-Function devices associated with an Upstream Port
must report the same value in this field for all functions. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

