# 17 :8

- RW
0x3ff CONFIG_LIMIT_REG:
- Configuration requests are directed either to CDM or ELBI/RTRGT1
based on the value of this field. - Configuration requests with an address less CONFIG_LIMIT_REG are directed to the CDM -
- Configuration requests with an address greater than
- CONFIG_LIMIT_REG are directed to either ELBI or TRGT1 interface
based on the setting of TARGET_ABOVE_CONFIG_LIMIT_REG field. Your application must set a proper value for this field based on your extended configuration registers. For more details, see the "CDM/ELBI
- Register Space Access Through CFG Request" in "Register Module,
- LBC, and DBI" section in the "Controller Operations" chapter of the
Databook. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 CFG_TLP_BYPASS_EN_REG:
- Setting of this field defines how to decide the destination of
- Configuration requests. Note: When app_req_retry_en is asserted, the
setting of this field is ignored. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x1 CPLQ_MNG_EN: This field enables the Completion Queue Management feature. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 ARI_DEVICE_NUMBER:
- When ARI is enabled, this field enables use of the device ID. Note: This
register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 DISABLE_AUTO_LTR_CLR_MSG:
- Disable the autonomous generation of LTR clear message in upstream
port. This field can have the following values: For more details, see "Latency Tolerance Reporting (LTR) Message Generation [EP Mode]" in "Message Generation" section of the "Controller Operations" chapter of the Databook. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x1 SIMPLIFIED_REPLAY_TIMER:
- Enables Simplified Replay Timer (Gen4). For more details, see "Transmit
- Replay" in "Transmit TLP Processing" section in the "Controller
- Operations" chapter of the Databook. Simplified Replay Timer can have
the following Values: - A value from 24,000 to 31,000 Symbol Times when Extended Synch is 0b. - A value from 80,000 to 100,000 Symbol
- Times when Extended Synch is 1b. The Simplified Replay Timer value
must not be changed while the link is in use. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 UR_CA_MASK_4_TRGT1:
- When this field is set to '1', the controller suppresses error logging,
error message generation, and CPL generation for non-posted requests TLPs (with UR filtering status) forwarded to your application (that is, when DEFAULT_TARGET =1). For more details, see "Advanced
- Error Handling For Received TLPs" chapter of the Databook. Note: This
register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 DEFAULT_TARGET: Default target for an IO or MEM request with UR/CA/CRS received.
- Based on the value of this field the controller either drops or forwards
these requests to your application. For more details, see "ECRC
- Handling" and "Request TLP Routing Rules" in "Receive Routing"
section of the "Controller Operations" chapter of the Databook. Note: This register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x1 DBI_RO_WR_EN:
- Write to RO Registers Using DBI. For more details, see "Writing to
- Read-Only Registers" in "Register Module, LBC, and DBI" section in the
"Controller Operations" chapter of the Databook. Note: This register field is sticky.
- PCIE_X<j>_EP_PF0_PORT_LOGIC_MULTI_LANE_CONTROL_OFF_0
where <j> = 4, 8. Description:Used when upsizing or downsizing the link width through Configuration state without bringing the link down. For more details, see the "Link Establishment" section in the "Controller Operations" chapter of the Databook.
- PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_PORT_LOGIC_MULTI_LANE_CONTROL_OFF_0
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_PORT_LOGIC_MULTI_LANE_CONTROL_OFF_0
- Offset: 0x8c0
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

