# 18 :16 0x0 PTXQ:

- Number of Packets in the Transmit Queue This field indicates the current
number of packets in the Tx Queue. When the DTXSTS bit of
- MTL_Operation_Mode register is set to 1, this field does not reflect the
number of packets in the Transmit queue. 15:6 0x0 Reserved_15_6: Reserved. 0x0 TXSTSFSTS:
- MTL Tx Status FIFO Full Status When high, this bit indicates that the MTL Tx
- Status FIFO is full. Therefore, the MTL cannot accept any more packets for
transmission. 0x0 TXQSTS:
- MTL Tx Queue Not Empty Status When this bit is high, it indicates that the
MTL Tx Queue is not empty and some data is left for transmission. 0x0 TWCSTS:
- MTL Tx Queue Write Controller Status When high, this bit indicates that the
- MTL Tx Queue Write Controller is active, and it is transferring the data to the
Tx Queue. 2:1 0x0 TRCSTS:
- MTL Tx Queue Read Controller Status This field indicates the state of the Tx
Queue Read Controller: 0x0 TXQPAUSED:
- Transmit Queue in Pause When this bit is high and the Rx flow control is
enabled, it indicates that the Tx Queue is in the Pause condition (in the full- duplex only mode) because of the following: - Reception of the PFC packet for the priorities assigned to the Tx Queue when PFC is enabled - Reception of 802.3x Pause packet when PFC is disabled
- EQOS_EQOS_MTL_Q1_MTL_TXQ1_ETS_CONTROL_0
The Queue ETS Control register controls the enhanced transmission selection operation.
- Offset: 0xd50
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

