# 19.2 MHz

- NV_timertick - The central ACTMON module uses the mS and µs ticks from NV_timers block
to keep track of sample periods.
##### 9.6.2.2.1 Accounting for Variable ACTMON and Device Clocks
The main purpose of Central Activity Monitors (Central ACTMONs) is to compute the utilization per unit time. This requires a constant time base that can only be provided by a constant reference clock (refClk).

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
Variation between refClk and device clock could lead to errors in counting. The following describes the issues relating to this clock variation and how they are solved: Accounting for different frequencies:
- Since the signaling devices may be operating at different frequencies, the ACTMON
counts need to be scaled appropriately to compute true utilization. For this, each counter is associated with a COUNT_WEIGHT value (denoted by 'W') which is the ratio of the device clock and the constant ACTMON reference clock (refClk). At the end of each sample period, the counter value is scaled by COUNT_WEIGHT to account for the frequency difference. 'W' is statically selected for each client such that it maps the client frequency range to a "reasonable" monitor output change. Accounting for pulse loss from high-frequency devices:
- Devices, such as MC, NVDEC, NVENC, and NVJPG, operate at much higher frequencies
than the ACTMON clock. Since ACTMON functions based on the idle/active pulses from these devices, a number of pulses are dropped as result of the slower ACTMON clock. To solve this problem, the device, instead of sending active/idle for each clock, toggles a signal for every 'N' active pulses of the device, where 'N' is the ratio of the device frequency to ACTMON frequency and needs to be programmed by software into the
- ACTMON and corresponding devices. Effectively, the idle/active pulses of these high-
frequency devices are reduced by a factor of 'N.' Using the 'N'-factor-reduced idle/active pulses, which is guaranteed to be slower than the ACTMON clock, no pulses are missed.
**Figure 9.68 Unit_ACTMON Handling High-Frequency Activity Signals**

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
#### 9.6.2.3 Handling Overflow
Saturation of the counter leads to counter overflow and results in an Interrupt to the system software. The software is expected to clear the counter upon completion of servicing the Interrupt for continual use.
#### 9.6.2.4 Features to Aid DVFS
The Central ACTMON module provides the following hardware support for DVFS:
- Watermark Generation
- Each counter in the ACTMON unit is associated with an upper and lower watermark
register to track any sudden abnormalities in utilization, e.g., rapidly varying workloads. A programmable number of watermark breaches is used to trigger the generation of an Interrupt to system software.
- Exponentially Weighted Moving Average (EWMA)
- An EWMA is maintained for each Central ACTMON counter to keep a running average of
the past 'K' (programmable) counter values. It is implemented as a 1st-order IIR filter using the following formula:
- At = K * Ct + (1 - K) * At-1, where
- At is the running average,
K = 2-( K_VAL+1) (default = 2-7), Ct is the current count value. Upper and lower watermarks are also provided for this EWMA.
- Cumulative Counter
- Each Central ACTMON has a cumulative counter register to keep track of the activity
across sample periods. This counter register is updated continuously, not cleared/reset at sample period boundaries. The count in this cumulative counter register can be polled by the software (mostly BPMP firmware) at frequent intervals (< 10 mS granularity) to understand the activity trends.
- Each ACTMON Instance also has a cumulative counter register to store the cumulative
activity count value. This counter register is incremented at each active cycle of the activity signal to accumulate the activity continuously through sample periods, not cleared/reset at sample boundaries. This counter register is NOT compared against any thresholds to generate any Interrupts.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- Each ACTMON has a counter that accumulates the activity signal over a programmable
sample period. At the end of the sample period, the counter value is latched into a register.
- At any instant, software reads this register to receive the activity count for the most
recently completed sample period.
#### 9.6.2.5 Unit ACTMONs for Multimedia Engines (NVJPG, NVENC, NVENC1,
- NVDEC, NVDEC1, and VIC)
In Orin, two Unit ACTMONs, one for Engine Activity and the other for Memory Bottlenecks, are assigned for each multimedia engine (NVJPG, NVENC, NVDEC, VIC) to allow system software to concurrently study engine load and memory bottlenecks. Orin system software has the ability to aggregate signals inside these multimedia modules before exporting to Unit ACTMON.
**Figure 9.69 Multimedia Engine ACTMON**
The four signals on the right side of the diagram above are described below: Engine_Active goes HIGH for the ACTIVE cycle, i.e., when any of the subunits of the engine is active.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- Stalled goes HIGH when the engine is unable to issue a request to memory, i.e., a STALLED
cycle.
- Delay goes HIGH when the engine is waiting for a read-response or write-acknowledge from
memory. Starved goes HIGH when engine’s internal input memory buffers are empty. The default configuration can be:
- Engine Active = (Engine_active & !Starved)
- Memory Bottleneck = (Engine_active & Starved)
- At Power On Reset (POR)
1.
- The unit exports the two signals: Engine Active and Memory Bottleneck. This requires that
the AFBIF infrastructure to support the Boolean logic aggregation then export the two signals to the Host Controller, where the two ACTMON Instances are located.
- VIC provides the Starved signal. NVJPG, NVENC, and NVDEC units do not generate the
Starved signal. 2.
#### 9.6.2.6 Unit ACTMON for BPMP/SCE/RCE/AON Cortex-R5 Processor
One Unit ACTMON is instantiated for each of the Cortex-R5 processors in BPMP, SCE, RCE, and AON cluster. These Unit ACTMONs are intended to aid software with load-based frequency scaling of the processor clock. It can also count selected signals from the Cortex-R5 Event Bus to identify Memory-Mapped Read and Write (MMIO) latency limits. To enable common design and verification, these Unit ACTMONs are instantiated as part of the common Performance Monitor (PM) module inside the individual Cortex-R5 cluster. The active signal for these Unit ACTMONs can be sourced from the following:
- WFEPIPESTOPPED
- WFIPIPESTOPPED
- CLKSTOPPED
- Selected signals from the Cortex-R5’s Event Bus
For details of these signals and how they can be combined to generate the Activity signal for the Unit ACTMON, see the BPMP chapter of this TRM. The Activity signal is accumulated using a down-counter and when it reaches zero, the signal to the Unit ACTMON is toggled. The Unit ACTMON runs on the refClk just like the Central ACTMONs and we expect it to get reset when the PM module (within which it sits) gets reset.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
The Unit ACTMON's Interrupt is sent to PM module which adds an additional Interrupt line for the ACTMON.
#### 9.6.2.7 Activity Aggregation
The memory controller has 16 N-Bit signals to ACTMON (where N = 16 = number of channels) and the ACTMON logic combines them to update the counter as follows: For each of the MC_CPU, MC_ALL, DBB NoC related ACTMON Instances @ refClk: if (neither signal toggles)
- No change
else if (any 1 signal toggles)
- Increment by W
else if (any 2 signals toggle)
- Increment by 2*W
else if (any 3 signals toggle)
- Increment by 3*W
else if (any 4 signals toggle)
- Increment by 4*W
else if (any 5 signals toggle)
- Increment by 5*W
else if (any 6 signals toggle)
- Increment by 6*W
else if (any 7 signals toggle)
- Increment by 7*W
else if (any 8 signals toggle)
- Increment by 8*W
else if (any 9 signals toggle)
- Increment by 9*W
else if (any 10 signals toggle)
- Increment by 10*W
else if (any 11 signals toggle)
- Increment by 11*W
else if (any 12 signals toggle)
- Increment by 12*W
else if (any 13 signals toggle)
- Increment by 13*W
else if (any 14 signals toggle)
- Increment by 14*W
else if (any 15 signals toggle)
- Increment by 15*W
else if (any 16 signals toggle)
- Increment by 16*W
Where W is the weight (VAL bits) programmed in the COUNT_WEIGHT register.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)

