# 19 :16 0x1 CAP:

- Capability Version. This field is a PCI-SIG defined version number that indicates
the version of the Capability structure present. A version of the specification that changes the Extended Capability in a way that is not otherwise identifiable (that is, through a new Capability field) is permitted to increment this field. All such changes to the Capability structure must be software-compatible.
- Software must check for Capability Version numbers that are greater than or
equal to the highest number defined when the software is written, as Functions reporting any such Capability Version numbers will contain a Capability structure that is compatible with that piece of software. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/ W(sticky) else R(sticky) Note: This register field is sticky. 15:0 0xb ID:
- PCI Express Extended Capability ID. This field is a PCI-SIG defined ID number
that indicates the nature and format of the Extended Capability. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W(sticky) else R(sticky) Note: This register field is sticky.
- PCIE_X<j>_EP_PF0_VSECDMA_CAP_VSECDMA_VENDOR_SPECIFIC_HDR_OFF_0
where <j> = 4, 8. Description:This Register provides VSEC Length, VSEC ID, and VSEC Rev(Version Number). Vendor- specific software must qualify the associated Vendor ID of the PCI Express Function or RCRB before attempting to interpret the values in the VSEC ID or VSEC Rev fields.
- PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_VSECDMA_CAP_VSECDMA_VENDOR_SPECIFIC_HDR_OFF_0
- Offset: 0x378
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_VSECDMA_CAP_VSECDMA_VENDOR_SPECIFIC_HDR_OFF_0
- Offset: 0x38c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x01800006 (0b0000,0001,1000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0110)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

