# 1 :0]

- UPHY
- In
- Asynchronous signal
- UPHY Brick Connectivity
The connectivity of MGBE instances to UPHY brick is shown below.
**Figure 10.107 MGBE UPHY Connectivity**
- External Interfaces
- XFI
The XFI interface uses the MAC as specified in the "MAC Details" section and PCS as specified in the "XFI PCS" section. Since MAC supports various speed modes (10G/5G/2.5G), if connected PHY supports different speeds (10G/5G/2.5G), the XFI interface can be used in as 10G/5G/2.5G interface. Remember that the XFI standard only defines 10G speed mode so any other speed mode can only be supported if attached PHY can support these capabilities.
- USXGMII
- The MGBE USXGMII interface supports 10G and 5G speed modes but using the replication mode;
as defined in clause 49 of IEEE 802.3 specification, each speed mode can be used to support lower data rates (5G and 2.5G) as well. Full details of the USXGMII MAC interface are provided in the "MAC Details" section. USXGMII PCS details are provided in the "USXGMII PCS" section.
- MDIO
This is a 2-signal interface to PHY to access the PHY Control and Status Registers. The interface constitutes a clock line at 2.5MHz from the SoC to the PHY and the other line is a bidirectional data line. The MDC Clock line can support frequencies from 2.5 MHz to 25 MHz. MGBE acts as the master to this interface.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- INTR by External PHY
This signal is used by the external PHY to communicate to the SoC, for its internally generated interrupts and that needs software attention. Then software needs to use the MDIO interface to access the PHY Control and Status Registers to service the interrupts.
- RESET to External PHY
The RESET pin to external Ethernet PHY, which is a GPIO pin, can be controlled only by software and is used to reset the external PHY. As part of the PHY initialization sequence, and if there is need to recover from errors, the RESET pin GPIO is programmed to apply the reset to external PHY. It is an active low signal driven from the GPIO controller module.
#### 10.8.3.8 Other Features of MGBE
##### 10.8.3.8.1 Wake on LAN
- The MGBE supports GPIO based remote wake-up function. The attached PHY, on receiving the
Wake Up packet, can generate wake up trigger signal on connected GPIO, which the chip PMC can use to wake up the Ethernet Controller.
##### 10.8.3.8.2 Energy Efficient Ethernet
The (EEE) mode is compliant with the IEEE 802.3az-2010 standard. It is primarily targeted to save power in the Ethernet port when there is no traffic on the line. In this mode, the host indicates to the far-end that it does not have any packets to transmit for near future and puts the transmitter port (MAC Controller, SERDES, and attached PHY) into low-power mode. Similarly, the Receiver port can also be put into low-power mode when the far-end host indicates that it does not have any traffic to transfer. This allows significant saving of power in the Ethernet port (mainly in the PHY) with intermittent and bursty traffic profile. The triggering of entry and exit out of the EEE mode is controlled by the MAC and is supported within the MGBE.
- The simultaneous operation of the EEE mode along with other power-saving modes is also
supported in MGBE.
- Clock Gating During EEE Operation
If EEE mode is enabled, XGMAC Tx clock and XGMAC Rx clock can be clock gated as shown in below diagram. This saves power in TX and RX paths during LPI mode.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.108 Clock Gating During EEE Operation**
- Transmit Controller
Transmit path implements the following functions when the EEE support is selected: Monitor the XGMII for Low Power Idle (LPI) pattern. Maintain the following EEE states in the Transmit path:
- Sleep (LPI request monitoring state)
- Quiet (Power-save state)
- Alert (Pre-wakeup state) in the PCS-R mode
- Wakeup (Refresh state)
The following figure shows the simplified version of the Transmit LPI state machine. The Transmit LPI flow is triggered when the MAC drives the LPI signals on the XGMII interface. The DWC_xpcs maintains various states in which it periodically includes refresh signaling and freezing the transmitter in the quiet state. By maintaining this predefined sequence, the protocol ensures that the link is alive and at the same time power is saved. When the MAC stops sending the LPI pattern (and starts sending the IDLE pattern), the EEE Transmit controller also comes out of this sequence and reverts to the IDLE (or normal transmit) state. The timers used in the EEE Transmit Controller have the default values given in the IEEE standard. You can change these default values (within a range) according to your requirement.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.109 EEE Transmit Controller**
The XGMAC can come out of the LPI mode at any time by driving normal idle instead of LPI Idle. After coming out of the LPI mode, the MAC waits for the wake-time period before it starts sending the frames. The wake-time limit depends on various factors such as:
- Local transmitter PCS or PHY layer latency in coming to normal IDLE state
- Pre-wakeup timing (ALERT in the case of 10GBASE-R/5GBASE-R)
- Remote Link PHY Latency
- Remote PCS or MAC wake-up requirements
Note that LPI Transmit behavior for 5G MAC and 2.5G MAC (over XGMII) is same as that of 10G MAC. The DWC_xpcs is ready to transmit the packets once it comes out of the LPI mode. However, the reliable packet transmission over the link occurs only after the WAKE TIMER (maintained in MAC layer as defined in IEEE802.3az standard) expires.
- Receive Controller
The PCS Receive path implements the functions below when the EEE support is selected: Decode the received LPI code group from the link partner. Maintain the following EEE states in the Receive path:
- Sleep (LPI request monitoring state)
- Quiet (Power-Save state)
- Wake (Refresh state)
- Wake-up Fault (Error Monitoring)
The following figure describes the simplified version of the LPI Receive state machine. The sequence in the state machine helps in saving the power in the PHY or PCS because some of the functional blocks can be switched off in the Quiet state. In addition, during Refresh state, the Rx

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description path is re-synchronized so that it can monitor the link status. The timers used in the EEE Rx Controller have the default values as given in the IEEE standard. You can change these default values (within a range) according to your requirement.
**Figure 10.110 EEE Receive Controller**
The Rx LPI mode is triggered when the DWC_xpcs receives the LPI from the link partner. After successful decoding, the controller enters the Sleep state and drives the LPI patterns on the Rx XGMII signals.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Registers Related to EEE
- VR_XS_PCS_EEE_MCTRL0 or VR_MII_EEE_MCTRL0
- VR_XS_PCS_EEE_MCTRL1 or VR_MII_EEE_MCTRL1
- VR_XS_PCS_EEE_TXTIMER or VR_MII_EEE_TXTIMER
- VR_XS_PCS_EEE_RXTIMER or VR_MII_EEE_RXTIMER
- SR_XS_PCS_EEE_ABL
- SR_XS_PCS_EEE_WKERR
##### 10.8.3.8.3 Packet Filtering
The following figure shows Packet Filtering sequence on received packets.
**Figure 10.111 Receive Packet Filtering Sequence**
The above filtering sequence is valid when all the filters (L2, VLAN, L3, L4) are active. If any of the Layer filters are not enabled, that filter is bypassed and the subsequent filter is applied. A packet that fails any of the filters is discarded. However, the discarded packet can be forwarded to the host based on the register control. For example, when Bit RA of MAC_Packet_Filter register is set to 1, all discarded packets are forwarded to the host but with its packet status indicating the specific filter-failure.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Ethernet Source or Destination Address Filters
These filters support various kinds of Ethernet Source and Destination address based filtering operations. Some of them are defined below.
- Unicast Destination Address based filtering: Both perfect and Hash filter-based checks are
provided on up to 128 MAC Addresses.
- Multicast Destination Address Filtering: The multicast address is compared with the
programmed MAC Destination Address registers (1–31).
- Broadcast Address filtering: The MAC does not filter any broadcast packets by default. To
program the MAC to reject all broadcast packets, set the DBF bit in MAC_Packet_Filter register.
- Unicast Source Address Filtering: The MAC can perform perfect filtering based on the
source address field of received packets.
- Inverse Filtering: For DA and SA filtering, filter-match result at the final output can be
inverted.
- VLAN Filters
In VLAN tag perfect filtering, the MAC compares the VLAN tag of received packet and provides the VLAN packet status to the application. Note that the source or destination address (if enabled) has precedence over the VLAN tag filters. This means that a packet that fails the source or destination address filter is dropped irrespective of the VLAN tag filter results. The MAC Receiver can classify the received packets based on VLAN Tag and steer them to a specific Rx DMA channel. Each of the VLAN Tags has individual control over stripping. The programming options of Always strip, never strip, strip on pass and strip on fail are available. Inner or Outer VLAN Tag Stripping is based on the pass or fail results of the individual tag.
- IP Source or Destination Address Filters
The MGBE supports perfect matching or inverse matching for IP Source Address and Destination Address. In addition, you can match the complete IP address or mask the lower bits matching, that is, compare all bits of the address except the specified lower mask bits.
- TCP or UDP Source or Destination Port Filters
The MGBE supports perfect matching or inverse matching for TCP or UDP Source and Destination Port numbers.
##### 10.8.3.8.4 Using PHY Interfaces
Major PHY interfaces are described below.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Preamble Suppression
The IEEE standard specifies 32-bit preamble (all-ones) for the MDIO frames. The MGBE provides controls to support preamble suppression. MGBE transmits MDIO frames with only 1 preamble bit. The preamble suppression can be enabled by setting PSE bit of MAC_MDIO_Address register.
- MDIO Transaction completion Interrupt
The MGBE can generate an interrupt on completion of MDIO read or write transactions. Therefore, the application need not poll the Busy field of the MAC_MDIO_Address register to know the completion of MDIO commands.
- XFI and USXGMII Interface
These interfaces are defined in the “External Interfaces” section.
- IEEE 1588 Timestamp Support
- The MGBE supports the IEEE 1588-2002 (version 1) and IEEE 1588-2008 (version 2). The IEEE

