# 1 -bit boolean to override outputA to equal dstA Given the source and destination factor settings based on config structure inputs and color match results, the per-pixel blend equations are as follows, where srcR, srcG, srcB, srcA, dstR, dstG, dstB, and dstA represent the incoming R, G, B, and A components of the incoming source and already present destination pixels in the SFMem buffer (blended results of background and slot[0] through to slot[n-1] for input slot[n]). outputR = (srcFactC * srcR) + (dstFactC * dstR) outputG = (srcFactC * srcG) + (dstFactC * dstG) outputB = (srcFactC * srcB) + (dstFactC * dstB) outputA = (srcFactA * srcA) + (dstFactA * dstA) srcFactC, srcFactA, dstFactC, and dstFactA are programmed by srcFactCMatchSelect, srcFactCMatchSelect, srcFactCMatchSelect, and srcFactCMatchSelect respectively.

- UseK3 allows the incoming source components to be overridden by constant color components
K3R, K3G, K3B, and K3A.
- MaskR, MaskG, MaskB, and MaskA boolean settings provide additional per-component mask bits
to allow pass-through of the destination pixel components to the output pixel. A programmable background color can still be set to fill the target rectangle background via the OutputConfig structure. The programmed background color should follow these rules: The background color is programmed in the same color space as the blending color space. For example, if the blending is happening in an RGB color space, then the background color is treated as an ARGB value. If the blending happens in a YUV color space, the background color is treated as an AYUV value. Similarly, if the blending happens in a linear color space, the background color is treated as a linear color space value. If the blending is in non-linear space, then the background color is also expected to be non-linear.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.3.10 Surface Composition
**Figure 7.51 Programming Input and Output Surface Parameters**
The maximum dimension of any image on the input or output sides of the VIC is 16384 pixels. The dimensions of each input slot surface can be defined along with the pixel and memory format types in the VIC Config Structure. A source rectangle defines the region of pixels of the input slot surface that contributes to the composition of the output surface, and a destination rectangle defines the region of the output surface that is affected by a given input slot. Together, the source and destination rectangle parameters specify the scaling ratios desired. Each slot can also dictate how pixel data is laid out in each surface cache entry by specifying the amount of pixel data, i.e., the number of bytes wide, logically represented by each cache entry; this provides flexibility in reducing the memory over fetch associated with fetch of surfaces under various use cases (e.g., scaling ratios, de-interlacing modes, etc.).

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Via the OutputConfig structure, the dimensions of the output surface can be defined along with the pixel and memory format types. The same structure also defines a target rectangle to restrict the pixel processing output to a certain rectangle in the output surface. A programmable color can also be set to fill the background of the target rectangle. The VIC allows the programming of clear rectangles that prevent the fetch of pixels from specific rectangular regions of input slots. The use of the clear rectangles can be used to reduce redundant pixel fetches, for example, if an opaque surface is known to occlude a layer below it, a clear rectangle can be specified to prevent fetching of pixels from the occluded region of the lower layer. Up to eight clear rectangles are specified via the ClearRectStruct structs, and per-slot clear rectangle mask enables are specified via the SlotConfig struct. Clear rectangles are specified relative to the output surface coordinate system. With the addition of the sub-pixel source rectangle feature, source rectangle coordinates are specified in the config structure in a U14.16 format, allowing us to specify the source rectangle at a sub-pixel resolution. Destination, target, and clear rectangles coordinates are pixel aligned.
#### 7.3.1.4 Geometry Transform Processing
##### 7.3.1.4.1 SubFeature List
- Four pixel/clock throughput

