# 1 (Serial) The TKE uses an APB clock and an OSC clock. It also takes in a reference clock generated by the TSC module on Always-on domain.

##### 4.3.2.3.14 Watchdog Timer
A watchdog timer associated with Cortex-R5 in BPMP cluster is instanced to monitor Cortex-R5 health. The watchdog timer has robust restart mechanisms such as windowed watchdog and Q&A watchdog. The BPMP cluster has a dedicated watchdog timer instanced in the cluster as part of the TKE module. This enables us to architect the functionality of this timer as per the BPMP's specific requirements.
##### 4.3.2.3.15 Interrupt Timestamp
- The BPMP implements a timestamp module for logging the current TSC value when interrupts
occur.
#### 4.3.2.4 CCPLEX Power Management Interaction
The interaction with CCPLEX power management is limited to the following interfaces.
##### 4.3.2.4.1 CCPLEX Power Management-BPMP Communication Mailboxes
- The CCPLEX power management and BPMP communicate through local BPMP-HSP mailbox
Interrupts or doorbells provided in the Top0 Shared HSP module. For data payload, either SysRAM or DRAM or mailbox registers in HSP can be used.

- BPMP Functional Description
##### 4.3.2.4.2 AVFS Interface
CVC connects to the CCPLEX AVFS modules in the BCPU and MCPU clusters. Refer to the CVC and AVFS chapters for details.
##### 4.3.2.4.3 Secure MMIO interface
- The CCPLEX power manager is an MMIO master with its own NV-secure identity. CCPLEX power
manager can theoretically access any MMIO-mapped address within the BPMP cluster, including the BPMP's BTCM and caches, if the related SCRs are programmed to allow access to CCPLEX power management. There is one known case of CCPLEX power management requiring access to
- CCPLEX TSENSOR registers which are placed in a SHARED SCR group (TSENSOR_EXT_VALID
registers) so that CCPLEX power management can be granted access to disable the thermal sensors in specific CPU power states.
#### 4.3.2.5 BPMP Cluster Reset and Clocking
##### 4.3.2.5.1 Reset
- There are several independent reset domains in the BPMP that are able to independently
reset different parts of the Cortex-R5 and BPMP.
- Cortex-R5 Reset
- Cortex-R5 has the ability to start executing instructions as soon as its reset is released
(deasserted). Hence, it is important to ensure that the entire system is ready to accept instructions before Cortex-R5 is released out of reset.
- Table 4.27 Cortex-R5 Reset Domains
- Reset Domain
- Description
- ACPRESETn
- Since the BPMP Cortex-R5 subsystem doesn't have an ACP. This should be tied
inactive (to 1) nRESET CPU non-debug logic reset.
- Note: Whenever nRESET is asserted, it should be asserted for at least four
- CLKIN cycles for correct reset operation. This signal needs to be pulsed by the
watchdog timer on a "processor hang" if debug through reset is needed. nSYSPORRESET Cortex-R5 system reset. This resets the Cortex-R5 processor and debug logic.
- Note: Whenever nSYSPORESET is asserted, it should be asserted for at least
four CLKIN cycles for correct reset operation. nPRESETDBG Cortex-R5 Debug reset. Resets debug-domain debug logic and the APB interface of the CPU. nCPUHALT Prevents the Cortex-R5 from fetching code out of reset.

- BPMP Functional Description
- Reset Domain
- Description
- DBGRESETn
Cortex-R5 Debug reset.
- Resets core-domain debug logic. This includes breakpoints, watchpoints, and
the DCC registers.
- BPMP Reset
There are three groups of resets in the BPMP as shown below. They are grouped so that the reset assertion and de-assertion can be understood in terms of a group of signals rather than a bunch of independent signals.
- Table 4.28 Reset Levels in BPMP
- Group 0
- Group 1
- Group 2
- System reset
- All BPMP resets, except for Groups 2 and 3
resets nSYSPORRESET, nRESET,
- ARSTn, CRSTn, LRSTn, VIC0, VIC1
The order of deassertion of resets on cold boot are from Level 0 through Level 3. Group 0 reset is the system reset. This is controlled by the central CAR module.
- Group 1 resets include most of the resets of BPMP (except the Group 2 and Group 3). This
reset group is deasserted when Level 0 group reset is released/deasserted. DBGRESETn and nPRESETDBG may be extended up to four clocks after the Group 1 reset deasserts. Group 2 reset group is primarily the Cortex-R5 and PL192 resets. This is the last module in the BPMP cluster that comes out of reset. The rest of the cluster is ready to receive and process Cortex-R5 requests as soon as Cortex-R5 is released. The Group 2 reset is the same as Group 1 reset, except it may be extended up to four clocks.
##### 4.3.2.5.2 Clocking
The primary clock for BPMP complex is the clock used by Cortex-R5 (called bpmp_cpu_clk). The bpmp_cpu_clk must be able to run at various lower frequencies (preferably with fine granularity) to reduce the energy overhead of running a power management processor in low power use cases.
- BPMP Cluster Clocking
There are essentially three groups of clocks in the BPMP cluster and the main BPMP clock gets sourced from the OSC clock. All clocks in the cluster are sourced from the OSC coming out of reset. During cold and warm boot, Boot ROM switches the clock sources for BPMP to PLLP.
- Core Processor Group
These is a group of clocks that run at the same frequency as the processor. These are the core processor clocks: the bpmp_cpu_clk, the ATCM/ROM clock, and the BTCM clock.

- BPMP Functional Description
- Processor Subsystem Group
This is the group of interfaces that interface with the processor or the NIC and run at a ratio divide down clock frequencies. These are the AXI master, the AXI peripheral, the AXI slave, and the APB debug interface. This group also includes the AXI clocks for the non-R5 BPMP NIC master and slave ports and module logic that works on the AXI clocks such as AST, DMA, CVC, and the APB bridge. The BPMP-NIC supports a C-channel low power interface for clock gating the logic in the NIC. The implementation supports peripheral, i.e., NIC initiated low power exit mode as described in the AMBA AXI protocol specification for low power clock control. This feature cannot be overridden.
- BPMP Subsystem Group
This is primarily composed of all the APB clocks and the timer interface. The processor subsystem group and the BPMP subsystem group of clocks use fractional dividers. The logic using the ratio synchronous clocks (bpmp_nic_clk) meets timing in 1:1 mode with respect to bpmp_cpu_clk. Hence, there is no duty cycle constraint on the bpmp_nic_clk ratio synchronous clock. The divided mode is used to mitigate dynamic power consumed by the BPMP cluster when the processor scales its frequency up to meet its performance requirements.
##### 4.3.2.5.3 Default Clock Sources
In boot modes (cold boot, warm boot, or SC7 boot), all clocks default to the RO/ OSC source. The Cortex-R5 and the backbone clocks for the boot modules are switched to the PLLP source by Boot ROM subsequently once the PLLP lock is detected. In SC7 boot mode, the PLLP is auto-started by logic in an always-on (AO) cluster.
- When the BPMP switches to Power Management mode, the BPMP-FW changes the clock source to
the BPMPCAMPLL or the dedicated BPMP NAFLL for optimal performance.

- CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
5. CPU Complex (CCPLEX)

