# 2.0 and SS ports according to the platform specific configuration:

- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT2_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT1_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT0_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT2_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT1_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT0_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE1_OC_MAP]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE0_OC_MAP]
2. Write ‘1’ to the following XUSB PADCTL register bits to clear possible false reporting of over current events before the over current signal mappings are properly programmed:
- XUSB_PADCTL_OC_DET_0[OC_DETECTED2]
- XUSB_PADCTL_OC_DET_0[OC_DETECTED1]
- XUSB_PADCTL_OC_DET_0[OC_DETECTED0]
- XUSB_PADCTL_OC_DET_0[OC_DETECTED_VBUS_PAD2]
- XUSB_PADCTL_OC_DET_0[OC_DETECTED_VBUS_PAD1]
- XUSB_PADCTL_OC_DET_0[OC_DETECTED_VBUS_PAD0]
3. Wait 1 us 4. Set the following XUSB PADCTL register bits to ‘1’ to enable the VBUS of the host ports:
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE1]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE0]
- Step 8
xHCI platform driver sets up StreamID of XUSB Host’s physical function, enabled virtual functions, and firmware loading state machine.

- USB Programming Guidelines
1. Program the following XUSB AO registers to set up StreamID:
- XUSB_AO_IFR_AXI_STREAMID_0[IFR_STREAMID]
2. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to set up StreamID:
- XUSB_PADCTL_HOST_AXI_STREAMID_PF_0[PF_STREAMID]
- XUSB_PADCTL_HOST_AXI_STREAMID_VF_0[VF_STREAMID]
- XUSB_PADCTL_HOST_AXI_STREAMID_VF_1[VF_STREAMID]
- XUSB_PADCTL_HOST_AXI_STREAMID_VF_2[VF_STREAMID]
- XUSB_PADCTL_HOST_AXI_STREAMID_VF_3[VF_STREAMID]
xHCI platform driver sets up StreamID of XUSB Device’s physical function. 3. Program the following XUSB PADCTL registers to set up StreamID:
- XUSB_PADCTL_DEV_AXI_STREAMID_PF_0[PF_STREAMID]
xHCI platform driver initializes XUSB Host’s configuration registers. 4. Program the following XUSB Host configuration registers to initialize XUSB:
- NV_PROJ__XUSB_CFG_1_BUS_MASTER to ‘1’
- NV_PROJ__XUSB_CFG_1_MEMORY_SPACE to ‘1’
- NV_PROJ__XUSB_CFG_4_BASE_ADDRESS to ‘0x500000’
xHCI Device driver initializes XUSB Device’s configuration registers. 5. Program the following XUSB Device configuration registers to initialize XUSB:
- NV_PROJ__XUSB_DEV_CFG_1_BUS_MASTER to ‘1’
- NV_PROJ__XUSB_DEV_CFG_1_MEMORY_SPACE to ‘1’
- NV_PROJ__XUSB_DEV_CFG_4_BASE_ADDRESS to ‘0x450000’
xHCI Device driver enables XUSB Device controller. 6. Program the following XUSB Device MMIO registers to enable XUSB Device:
- NV_PROJ__XUSB_DEV_XHCI_CTRL_0_ENABLE to ‘1’
#### 10.2.3.2 SC7 (LP0)
##### 10.2.3.2.1 SC7 Entry
- Step 1
The xHCI driver performs a context save operation as described in the xHCI specification. The xHCI

- USB Programming Guidelines
PEP driver performs an XUSB specific context save operation. The xHCI PEP driver performs an XUSB IPFS specific context save operation. 1. Read and store the value of the following registers:
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_MSI_BAR_SZ_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_MSI_AXI_BAR_ST_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_MSI_FPCI_BAR_ST_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_MSI_VEC0_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_MSI_EN_VEC0_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_FPCI_ERROR_MASKS_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_INTR_MASK_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_IPFS_INTR_ENABLE_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_UFPCI_CONFIG_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_CLKGATE_HYSTERESIS_0
- XUSB_{HOST,DEV}_XUSB_HOST_MCCIF_FIFOCTRL_0
- Step 2
- The System Power Management driver programs the PMC USB2.0 sleepwalk logic as described in
sections. The System Power Management driver should enable the wake events according to the port states and Wake-on-Connect, Wake-on-Disconnect, and Wake-on-Over-Current settings of XUSB registers ports accordingly. The System Power Management driver enables wake events from USB ports. 1. Set the following PMC WAKE register bits to '1' to set the wake signal active level to 'HIGH'
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_76[3] for SS port 0 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_77[3] for SS port 1 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_78[3] for SS port 2 and port 3 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_79[3] for USB2 NVWRAP port 0 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_80[3] for USB2 NVWRAP port 1 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_81[3] for USB2 NVWRAP port 2 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_82[3] for USB2 NVWRAP port 3 wakeup
2.
- Set the following PMC WAKE register bits to '1' to enable USB wake events
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_76[0] for SS port 0 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_77[0] for SS port 1 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_78[0] for SS port 2 and port 3 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_79[0] for USB2 NVWRAP port 0 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_80[0] for USB2 NVWRAP port 1 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_81[0] for USB2 NVWRAP port 2 wakeup
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_82[0] for USB2 NVWRAP port 3 wakeup

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Step 3
- The System Power Management driver sets up the VBUS_ENABLE I/O pins as GPIO with wake
events enabled to enable wake on overcurrent. 1.
- Set the following USB PADCTL registers to 'OC_DETECTION_DISABLED' to disable
overcurrent wake events reporting from USB PADCTL:
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE3_OC_MAP]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE2_OC_MAP]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE1_OC_MAP]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE0_OC_MAP]
2. Set the following PMC WAKE register bits to '1' to set the wake signal active level to 'HIGH' and enable the wake events:
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_62[3] for VBUS_ENABLE1
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CNTRL_61[3] for VBUS_ENABLE0
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_62[0] for VBUS_ENABLE1
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_W_61[0] for VBUS_ENABLE0
- Step 4
The system software puts the system in SC7.
##### 10.2.3.2.2 SC7 Exit
After exiting SC7, the PMC restores the partition power gating to the state before SC7 entry. This means if a partition was power gated before entering SC7, that partition would stay power gated after exiting SC7, and only partitions that were powered before entering SC7 would have their power restored after exiting SC7.
- Step 1
The Boot ROM deasserts reset to USB PADCTL block.
- Step 2
The Boot ROM performs battery charging operations through USB2 Controller.
- Step 3
The SC7 exit sequence is described in the Power Management Controller chapter of this TRM.
- Step 4
The PAD driver checks the VBUS_ENABLE I/O pins for overcurrent events and disables wake event reporting. 1.
- Read the following PMC WAKE register bits
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_R_63_32_0[30] for VBUS_ENABLE1
- WAKE_AOWAKE_MASK_R_63_32_0[29] for VBUS_ENABLE0
2. The PAD driver forwards the overcurrent events to XUSB if they occurred during SC7.

- USB Programming Guidelines
3.
- Program the following USB PADCTL registers to enable software override of overcurrent wake
events
- XUSB_PADCTL_OC_DET_0[SET_OC_DETECTED0]
4.
- Program the following USB PADCTL registers to 'OC_DETECTED0' to report the overcurrent
wake events to XUSB or USB 2 ports, according to the platform specific configuration:
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT3_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT2_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT1_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OC_MAP_0[PORT0_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT3_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT2_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT1_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_SS_OC_MAP_0[PORT0_OC_PIN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE1_OC_MAP]
- XUSB_PADCTL_VBUS_OC_MAP_0[VBUS_ENABLE0_OC_MAP]
- Step 5
The PAD driver assigns the USB port to the controllers, then programs the port capabilities and pad parameters of ports assigned to XUSB according to the platform specific configuration. Refer to Step 3, #4 through #7 in for the programming sequence.
- Step 6
The PAD driver programs the clocks and deasserts the resets to the controllers. 1. 2. 3. Refer to Step 4 the Cold Boot Section for the start of the programming sequence. Wait 1 µs.
- Program the following USB PADCTL register bits to '0' to release the XUSB SS wake logic
state latching:
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
4. 5. Wait 100 µs.
- Program the following USB PADCTL register bits to '0' to release the XUSB SS wake logic
state latching:
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
6. Wait 100 µs.

- USB Programming Guidelines
7.
- Program the following USB PADCTL register bits to '0' to release the XUSB SS wake logic
state latching:
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- Step 7
The PAD driver programs the capability and pad parameters of ports owned by USB2 controllers. Refer to Step 3, #8 of the Cold Boot Section for the USB 2 port capability and PAD/PLL parameter programming sequence.
- Step 8
The PAD driver enables the VBUS to the USB ports if VBUS was disabled during SC7. Refer to Step 5 of the Cold Boot Section for the programming sequence.
- Step 9
The xHCI PEP driver performs the XUSB specific context restore operation, if XUSB was not in ELPG before entering SC7 or the SC7 exit is due to wake event from ports of XUSB. The xHCI PEP driver performs XUSB register initialization as described below: xHCI PEP driver initializes XUSB Host's configuration registers 1. Program the following XUSB configuration registers to initialize XUSB: T_XUSB_T_ XUSB_CFG_1_BUS_MASTER to '1' T_XUSB_T_ XUSB_CFG_1_MEMORY_SPACE to '1' T_XUSB_T_ XUSB_CFG_4_BASE_ADDRESS to 0x02000 xHCI Device driver initializes XUSB Host's configuration registers 1. Program the following XUSB configuration registers to initialize XUSB: T_XUSB_T_ XUSB_DEV_CFG_1_BUS_MASTER to '1' T_XUSB_T_ XUSB_DEV_CFG_1_MEMORY_SPACE to '1' T_XUSB_T_ XUSB_DEV_CFG_4_BASE_ADDRESS to 0x02000
- Step 10
The xHCI PEP Driver loads XUSB firmware. If XUSB was not in ELPG before entering SC7 and the SC7 exit is not due to wake event from ports of XUSB.
- Step 11
The System Power Management driver programs the PMC USB 2.0 sleepwalk logic.

- USB Programming Guidelines
#### 10.2.3.3 XUSB Controller Power Gating
The XUSB controller has three partitions that can be selectively power gated with the following use cases, where unlisted combinations are not supported.
- Table 10.1 Selective Power Gating for Three Partitions
- XUSBC
(Host/USB 2.0)
- XUSBB
(Device)
- XUSBA
(SuperSpeed)
- Use Case Descriptions
- Powered
- Powered
- Powered
- Both Host and Device modes in normal
operations, with SuperSpeed links operational.
- Powered
- Power Gated
- Powered
- Host mode in normal operations, with
- SuperSpeed links operational. Device
mode power gated.
- Device mode SuperSpeed and USB 2.0 link
wake events report through USB PADCTL.
- Power Gated
- Power Gated
- Power Gated
- Both Host and Device modes power gated,
with SuperSpeed links in low power states.
- All Host and Device modes link wake
events report through USB PADCTL.
- Power Gated
- Powered
- Powered
- Host mode in ELPG while Device mode is
not in ELPG. SuperSpeed links in normal operation. Due to the wake latency requirements, device partition can only be power-gated when the device port is not connected.
##### 10.2.3.3.1 All Partitions ELPG Entry
- Step 1
The xHCI driver performs context save operation as described in the xHCI specification. The xHCI PEP driver performs XUSB_HOST specific context save operation. In case the SuperSpeed partition has already been power gated, xHCI firmware (FW) and XUSB Device Mode drivers should not save the context of the SuperSpeed partition again. The XUSB Device Mode driver performs XUSB_DEVICE specific context save operations.
- Step 2
- The System Power Management driver programs the PMC USB 2.0 sleepwalk logic for ports
assigned to XUSB host mode and XUSB Device Mode according as described in Initialize PMC Sleepwalk Logic and Enable PMC Sleepwalk Logic sections.

- USB Programming Guidelines
The System Power Management driver should enable the wake events according to the port states and Wake-on-Connect, Wake-on-Disconnect, and Wake-on-Over-Current settings of the USB 2 ports accordingly.
- Step 3
- The xHCI PEP driver and XUSB Device Mode driver enable the XUSB wakeup interrupts for the
SuperSpeed and USB 2.0 ports assigned to host and device. 1. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to clear the interrupt status.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT3_WAKEUP_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT2_WAKEUP_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT1_WAKEUP_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT0_WAKEUP_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT3_WAKEUP_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT2_WAKEUP_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT1_WAKEUP_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT0_WAKEUP_EVENT]
Set the following USB PADCTL register bits to '1' to enable the interrupt.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT3_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT2_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT1_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT0_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT3_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT2_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT1_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT0_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- Step 4
The xHCI PEP driver and XUSB Device Mode driver initiate the signal sequence to enable the XUSB SSwake detection logic for the SuperSpeed ports assigned to host and device. 1. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to assert the clamp_en_early signal.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
2. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to assert the clamp_en signal.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
3.
- Wait 250 µs
- Step 5
System Power Management driver flushes MCCIF and partition clients. 1. Set the following MC register bits to '1' to enable flush to XUSB:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0[XUSB_HOST_FLUSH_ENABLE] for host mode
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0[XUSB_DEV_FLUSH_ENABLE] for device mode
2. Read the following MC register bits to be '1' to ensure flush to XUSB is enabled:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_0[XUSB_HOST_HOTRESET_STATUS] for host mode
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_0[XUSB_DEV_HOTRESET_STATUS] for device mode
- Step 6
The System Power Management driver asserts reset to XUSB then disables its clocks. 1. Set the following CAR register bits to '1' to assert reset to XUSB:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_HOST_RST] for host mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_DEV_RST] for device mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_SS_RST] for SuperSpeed ports
2. Set the following CAR register bits to '1' to disable the clocks to individual XUSB partitions:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_CLR_0[CLR_CLK_ENB_XUSB_HOST] for
host mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_CLR_0[CLR_CLK_ENB_XUSB_DEV] for
device mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_CLR_0[CLR_CLK_ENB_XUSB_SS] for SS
ports
- Step 7
The System Power Management driver disables the XUSB power rails. 1. Program the following PMC register bits in a single write to disable the power rail to XUSB host:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[INTER_PART_DELAY_EN] to 'ENABLE'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
2. Read the following PMC register bit to confirm the power gating status of XUSB host:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] equals '0'

- USB Programming Guidelines
3. Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB host:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
4. Program the following PMC register bits in a single write to disable the power rail to XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[INTER_PART_DELAY_EN] to 'ENABLE'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
5. Read the following PMC register bit to confirm the power gating status of XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
6. Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
7. Program the following PMC register bits in a single write to disable the power rail to XUSB SuperSpeed:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[INTER_PART_DELAY_EN] to 'ENABLE'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
8. Poll the following PMC register bit to become '0' to ensure power rail is disabled:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
9. Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
- Step 8
The xHCI PEP driver and XUSB Device Mode driver initiate the signal sequence to enable the XUSB SS wake detection logic for the SuperSpeed ports assigned to host and device. 1. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to assert the vcore_off signal:
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
##### 10.2.3.3.2 Host Mode Partition ELPG Entry
- Step 1
The xHCI driver performs context save operation as described in the xHCI specification.
- The xHCI PEP driver performs XUSB_HOST specific context save operations. In case the
SuperSpeed partition has already been power gated, xHCI firmware should not save the context of the SuperSpeed partition again.
- Step 2
- The System Power Management driver programs the PMC USB 2.0 sleepwalk logic for ports
assigned to XUSB host mode as described in the PMC Programming section. The System Power Management driver should enable the wake events according to the port states and Wake-on-Connect, Wake-on-Disconnect, and Wake-on-Over-Current settings of the USB 2 ports accordingly.
- Step 3
The xHCI PEP driver enables the XUSB wakeup interrupts for the SuperSpeed and USB 2.0 ports assigned to the host.
- Step 4
The System Power Management driver flushes MCCIF and partition clients. 1. Set the following MC register bit to '1' to enable flush to XUSB:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0[XUSB_HOST_FLUSH_ENABLE] for host mode
2. Read the following MC register bit to be '1' to ensure flush to XUSB is enabled:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_0[XUSB_HOST_HOTRESET_STATUS] for host mode
- Step 5
The System Power Management driver asserts reset to XUSB then disables its clocks. 1. Set the following CAR register bit to '1' to assert reset to XUSB:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_HOST_RST] for host mode
2. Set the following CAR register bit to '1' to disable the clocks to individual XUSB partitions:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_CLR_0[CLR_CLK_ENB_XUSB_HOST] for
host mode
- Step 6
The System Power Management driver disables the XUSB power rails.

- USB Programming Guidelines
1. Program the following PMC register bits in a single write to disable the power rail to XUSB host:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[INTER_PART_DELAY_EN] to 'ENABLE'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
2. Read the following PMC register bit to confirm the power gating status of XUSB host:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] equals '0'
3.
- Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB host
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
##### 10.2.3.3.3 Device Mode Partition ELPG Entry
Device mode partition should only be power gated when the device port is not connected.
- Step 1
The XUSB Device Mode driver performs XUSB_DEVICE specific context save operations.
- Step 2
- The System Power Management driver programs the PMC to enable wake on connect where
connection event is triggered by valid VBUS.
- Step 3
The System Power Management driver flushes MCCIF and partition clients. 1. Set the following MC register bit to '1' to enable flush to XUSB:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0[XUSB_DEV_FLUSH_ENABLE] for device mode
2. Read the following MC register bit to be '1' to ensure flush to XUSB is enabled:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_0[XUSB_DEV_HOTRESET_STATUS] for device mode
- Step 4
The System Power Management driver asserts reset to XUSB then disables its clocks. 1. Set the following CAR register bit to '1' to assert reset to XUSB:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_DEV_RST] for device mode
2. Set the following CAR register bit to '1' to disable the clocks to individual XUSB partitions:

- USB Programming Guidelines
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_CLR_0[CLR_CLK_ENB_XUSB_DEV] for
device mode
- Step 5
The System Power Management driver disables the XUSB power rails. 1.
- Programming the following PMC register bits in a single write to disable the power rail to
XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[INTER_PART_DELAY_EN] to 'ENABLE'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
2. Read the following PMC register bit to confirm the power gating status of XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
3.
- Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB Device
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'ON'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
- Step 6
The XUSB Device Mode driver initiates the signal sequence to enable the XUSB SS wake detection logic for the SuperSpeed ports assigned to device as described in Step 7 of the All Partitions ELPG Entry section. 1. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bit to assert the vcore_off signal.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
##### 10.2.3.3.4 All Partitions ELPG Exit
- In the case the wake event is not generated by SuperSpeed ports, the SuperSpeed related
programming should be skipped, where the SuperSpeed partition should exit ELPG due to wake events detected by SuperSpeed ports.
- Step 1
The System Power Management driver enables the XUSB power rails. 1.
- Program the following PMC register bits in a single write to enable the power rail to XUSB
host:

- USB Programming Guidelines
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
2.
- Poll the following PMC register bit to become '0' to ensure power rail is enabled
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
3.
- Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB host
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
4.
- Program the following PMC register bits to enable the power rail to XUSB Device
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
5.
- Poll the following PMC register bit to become '0' to ensure power rail is enabled
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
6.
- Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB Device
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
7.
- Program the following PMC register bits to enable the power rail to XUSB SuperSpeed
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
8.
- Poll the following PMC register bit to become '0' to ensure power rail is enabled
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
9.
- Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB
- SuperSpeed
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
- Step 2
The System Power Management driver enables XUSB clocks. 1. Set the following CAR register bits to '1' to enable the clocks to individual XUSB partitions.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_HOST] for host
mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_DEV] for
device mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_SS] for SS
ports 2.
- Wait 2 µs
- Step 3
The System Power Management driver removes power clamps to XUSB partitions. 1.
- Set the following PMC register bits to '0' to remove the power clamps to individual XUSB
partitions.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0[CLAMP] for Host partition
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_CLAMP_CONTROL_0[CLAMP] for Device partition
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBA_CLAMP_CONTROL_0[CLAMP] for SuperSpeed partition
2.
- Wait 200 ns
- Step 4
The System Power Management driver deasserts reset to XUSB. 1. Set the following CAR register bits to '0' to deassert reset to XUSB:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_HOST_RST] for host mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_DEV_RST] for device mode
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_SS_RST] for SuperSpeed ports
2.
- Wait 1 µs
- Step 5
The System Power Management driver disables flushes of MCCIF and partition clients. 1. Set the following MC register bits to '0' to disable flush to XUSB:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0[XUSB_HOST_FLUSH_ENABLE] for host mode
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0[XUSB_DEV_FLUSH_ENABLE] for device mode
- Step 6
The xHCI PEP driver and XUSB Device Mode driver disable the XUSB wakeup interrupts. 1. Set the following USB PADCTL register bits to '0' to disable the interrupts.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT3_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT2_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT1_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT0_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT3_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT2_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT1_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT0_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- Step 7
The xHCI PEP driver and XUSB Device Mode driver initiate the signal sequence to disable the XUSB SS wake detection logic. 1. Write '0' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to deassert the vcore_off signal.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_VCORE_DOWN]
2. 3. Wait 100 µs. Write '0' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to deassert the clamp_en_early signals.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN_EARLY]
4. 5. Wait 100 µs. Write '0' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to deassert the clamp_en signals.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP3_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP2_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP1_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_1_0[SSP0_ELPG_CLAMP_EN]
- Step 8
The xHCI PEP driver performs XUSB register initialization. The xHCI PEP driver performs XUSB context restore operation. The XUSB Device Mode driver performs XUSB_DEVICE context restore operations.
- Step 9
The xHCI PEP driver loads XUSB firmware. The xHCI PEP driver notifies XUSB firmware whether context of SuperSpeed Partition should be restored.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Step 10
The xHCI driver performs context restore operations as described in the xHCI specification section.
- Step 11
- The System Power Management driver programs the PMC USB 2.0 sleepwalk logic for ports
assigned to XUSB host mode and XUSB Device Mode to disable the sleepwalk logic as described in the PMC Programming section. The xHCI PEP driver and XUSB Device Mode driver clear the XUSB wakeup events. 1. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to clear the events.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT3_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT2_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT1_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[SS_PORT0_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT3_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT2_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT1_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT0_WAKE_EVENT]
##### 10.2.3.3.5 Host Mode ELPG Exit
- Step 1
The System Power Management driver enables the XUSB power rails. 1.
- Program the following PMC register bits in a single write to enable the power rail to XUSB
host:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
2.
- Poll the following PMC register bit to become '0' to ensure power rail is enabled
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
3.
- Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB host
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
- Step 2
The System Power Management driver enables XUSB clocks. 1. Set the following CAR register bit to '1' to enable the clocks to individual XUSB partitions:

- USB Programming Guidelines
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_HOST] for host
mode 2.
- Wait 2 µs
- Step 3
The System Power Management driver removes power clamps to XUSB partitions. 1.
- Set the following PMC register bit to '0' to remove the power clamps to individual XUSB
partitions:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0[CLAMP]
2.
- Wait 200 ns
- Step 4
The System Power Management driver deasserts reset to XUSB. 1.
- Set the following CAR register bit to '0' to deassert reset to XUSB
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_HOST_RST] for host mode
2.
- Wait 1 µs
- Step 5
The System Power Management driver disables flushes of MCCIF and partition clients. 1.
- Set the following MC register bits to '0' to disable flush to XUSB
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0[XUSB_HOST_FLUSH_ENABLE] for host mode
- Step 6
The xHCI PEP driver disables the USB 2.0 wakeup interrupts for ports assigned to XUSB. 1. Set the following USB PADCTL register bits to '0' to disable the interrupts.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT3_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT2_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT1_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT0_WAKE_INTERRUPT_ENABLE]
- Step 7
The xHCI PEP driver performs XUSB register initialization. The xHCI PEP driver performs XUSB context restore operations.
- Step 8
The xHCI PEP Driver loads XUSB firmware. The xHCI PEP Driver notifies XUSB firmware whether context of SuperSpeed Partition should be restored.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Step 9
The xHCI driver performs context restore operation as described in the xHCI specification.
- Step 10
- The System Power Management driver programs the PMC USB 2.0 sleepwalk logic for ports
assigned to XUSB host mode to disable the sleepwalk logic as described in the PMC Programming section. The xHCI PEP driver clears the XUSB wakeup events. 1. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to clear the events.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT3_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT2_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT1_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT0_WAKE_EVENT]
##### 10.2.3.3.6 Device Mode Partition ELPG Exit
- Step 1
The System Power Management driver enables the XUSB power rails. 1. Programming the following PMC register bits in a single write to disable the power rail to the XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_SLEEP_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[SRAM_RET_EN] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[LOGIC_SLEEP] to 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START] to '1'
2.
- Poll the following PMC register bit to become '0' to ensure power rail is enabled
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0[START]
3.
- Read the following PMC register bits to confirm the power gating status of XUSB Device
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[LOGIC_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_SLEEP_STS] equals 'OFF'
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0[SRAM_RET_STS] equals 'OFF'
- Step 2
The System Power Management driver enables XUSB clocks. 1. Set the following CAR register bit to '1' to enable the clocks to individual XUSB partitions.
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_XUSB_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_XUSB_DEV] for
device mode 2.
- Wait 2 µs

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Step 3
The XUSB Device Mode driver initiates the signal sequence to disable the XUSB SS wake detection logic for the SuperSpeed ports assigned to the device as described in Step 3 of the All Partitions ELPG Exit section.
- Step 4
XUSB Device Mode driver disables the XUSB SS wakeup interrupts for the ports assigned to device as described in Step 4 of the All Partitions ELPG Exit section.
- Step 5
The System Power Management driver removes power clamps to XUSB partitions: 1. Set the following PMC register bit to '0' to remove the power clamp to the XUSB device:
- PMC_IMPL_PART_XUSBB_CLAMP_CONTROL_0[CLAMP] for Device partition
2.
- Wait 200 ns
- Step 6
The System Power Management driver deasserts reset to XUSB. 1. Set the following CAR register bit to '0' to deassert reset to XUSB:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_XUSB_0[SWR_XUSB_DEV_RST] for device mode
2.
- Wait 1 µs
- Step 7
- The System Power Management driver programs the PMC USB 2.0 sleepwalk logic for ports
assigned to XUSB Device Mode to disable the sleepwalk logic as described in the Disable PMC Sleepwalk Logic section. The XUSB Device Mode driver clears the XUSB wakeup events: 1. Write '1' to the following USB PADCTL register bits to clear the events.
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT3_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT2_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT1_WAKE_EVENT]
- XUSB_PADCTL_ELPG_PROGRAM_0_0[USB2_PORT0_WAKE_EVENT]
- Step 8
The XUSB Device Mode driver performs XUSB_DEVICE context restore operations. Before power is to be removed from USB3, software should set the Device Mode to stop, then read the contexts from Device Mode MMIO registers and put them in system memory if required. After

- USB Programming Guidelines
power is restored to USB3 and hardware reset to USB3 is deasserted, software should pull the contexts from system memory and write them to the Device Mode registers. Software should reprogram the Device Mode registers to re-initialize the data structures and transfer rings before setting the Device Mode to run. The following Device Mode contexts should be saved and restored by the driver in Linux systems and are assumed to be saved and restored by the OS in Windows systems – if this is not the case, the Windows PEP filter driver has to perform the context save and restore:
- PCI config registers
- Command and Status
- BAR0/1
- Interrupt Line
- FLADJ
- MSI Message Control
- MSI Address
- MSI Data
- Power Management Control and Status
The following Device Mode contexts should be saved and restored by the Device Mode driver: MMIO registers:
- Device Address
- U2 Timeout
- Port Link State and Port State
- Event Ring enqueue pointer and PCS
#### 10.2.3.4 USB AO Programming
Sleepwalk logic in the USB AO is used for wake event detection of USB 2.0 ports, including wake on connect, wake on disconnect, and remote wakeup for XUSB.
##### 10.2.3.4.1 Initialize USB AO Sleepwalk Logic
- Step 1
The xHCI PEP driver initializes the sleepwalk logic:
- Set the following registers to '0' to ensure sleepwalk logics are disabled
1.
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[MASTER_ENABLE]

- USB Programming Guidelines
2.
- Set the following registers to '1' to ensure sleepwalk logics are in low power mode
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[MASTER_CFG_SEL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[MASTER_CFG_SEL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[MASTER_CFG_SEL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[MASTER_CFG_SEL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[MASTER_CFG_SEL]
3.
- Program the following registers to '0x1' to set debounce time
- XUSB_AO_USB_DEBOUNCE_DEL_0[UTMIP_LINE_DEB_CNT]
4.
- Set the following registers to '0' to ensure fake events of sleepwalk logic are disabled
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[FAKE_USBOP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[FAKE_USBON_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[FAKE_USBOP_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[FAKE_USBON_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[FAKE_USBOP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[FAKE_USBON_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[FAKE_USBOP_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[FAKE_USBON_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[FAKE_USBOP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[FAKE_USBON_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[FAKE_USBOP_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[FAKE_USBON_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[FAKE_USBOP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[FAKE_USBON_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[FAKE_USBOP_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[FAKE_USBON_VAL]
5. Set the following registers to '0' to ensure wake events of sleepwalk logic are not latched
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
6. Program the following registers to 'NONE' to disable wake event triggers of sleepwalk logic
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[WAKE_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[WAKE_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[WAKE_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[WAKE_VAL]
7.
- Set the following registers to '1' to power down the line state detectors of the pad
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[USBON_VAL_PD]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[USBON_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[USBON_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[USBON_VAL_PD]
##### 10.2.3.4.2 Enable USB AO Sleepwalk Logic
- Step 1
The xHCI PEP driver re-initializes the sleepwalk logic as described in the Initialize USB AO Sleepwalk Logic section.
- Step 2
The xHCI PEP driver sets up the sleepwalk logic. 1. Program the following registers to match the speed of the port:
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SAVED_STATE_0[SPEED]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SAVED_STATE_1[SPEED]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SAVED_STATE_2[SPEED]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SAVED_STATE_3[SPEED]
2. Set the following registers to '1' to enable the trigger of the sleepwalk logic:
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[WAKE_WALK_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[LINEVAL_WALK_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[WAKE_WALK_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[LINEVAL_WALK_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[WAKE_WALK_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[LINEVAL_WALK_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[WAKE_WALK_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[LINEVAL_WALK_EN]
3.
- Write '1' to the following registers to reset the walk pointer and clear the alarm of the
sleepwalk logic, as well as capture the configuration of the USB 2.0 pad:
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_0[CLR_WALK_PTR]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_0[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_0[CAP_CFG]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_1[CLR_WALK_PTR]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_1[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_1[CAP_CFG]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_2[CLR_WALK_PTR]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_2[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_2[CAP_CFG]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_3[CLR_WALK_PTR]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_3[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_3[CAP_CFG]
4. Program the following registers to set up the pull-ups and pull-downs of the signals during the four stages of sleepwalk
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[USBOP_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[USBON_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[USBOP_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[USBON_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[USBOP_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[USBON_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[USBOP_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[USBON_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[USBOP_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[USBON_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[USBOP_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[USBON_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[USBOP_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[USBON_RPD_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[USBOP_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[USBON_RPU_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
5. Program the following registers to set up the driving values of the signals during the four stages of sleepwalk (if the port speed is not unknown)
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[AP_A] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[AN_A] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[HIGNZ_A] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[AP_{B/C/D}] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[AN_{B/C/D}] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[HIGHZ_{B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[AP_A] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[AN_A] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[HIGNZ_A] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[AP_{B/C/D}] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[AN_{B/C/D}] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[HIGHZ_{B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[AP_A] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[AN_A] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[HIGNZ_A] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[AP_{B/C/D}] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[AN_{B/C/D}] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[HIGHZ_{B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[AP_A] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[AN_A] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[HIGNZ_A] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[AP_{B/C/D}] to '0' for HS/FS and '1' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[AN_{B/C/D}] to '1' for HS/FS and '0' for LS
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[HIGHZ_{B/C/D}] to '0'
6. Program the following registers to set up the driving values of the signals during the four stages of sleepwalk (if port speed is not determined):
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[AP_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[AN_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0[HIGHZ_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[AP_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[AN_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_1[HIGHZ_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[AP_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[AN_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_2[HIGHZ_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[AP_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[AN_{A/B/C/D}] to '0'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_3[HIGHZ_{A/B/C/D}] to '1'
- Step 3
The xHCI driver puts the ports in the U3 suspend state.
- Step 4
The xHCI PEP driver enables the wake event detections. 1. Set the following registers to '0' to power up the line state detectors of the pad:
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[USBON_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[USBON_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[USBON_VAL_PD]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[USBON_VAL_PD]
2. 3. Wait 1 µs.
- Set the following registers to '1' to switch the electric control of the USB 2.0 pad to
XUSB_AO:
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
4. Program the following registers to set the wake signaling trigger events:
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[WAKE_VAL] to 'ANY'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[WAKE_VAL] to 'ANY'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[WAKE_VAL] to 'ANY'
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[WAKE_VAL] to 'ANY'
5. Set the following registers to '1' to enable the wake detection:
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[MASTER_ENABLE]

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
##### 10.2.3.4.3 Disable USB AO Sleepwalk Logic
- Step 1
The xHCI PEP driver disables the wake event detections. 1.
- Set the following registers to '0' to disable the wake detection
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[MASTER_ENABLE]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[LINE_WAKEUP_EN]
2. Set the following registers to '0' to switch the electric control of the USB 2.0 pad to XUSB vcore logic
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[FSLS_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[TRK_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[RPD_CTRL_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[RPU_USE_XUSB_AO]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[VREG_USE_XUSB_AO]
3. Program the following registers to 'NONE' to disable wake event triggers of sleepwalk logic

- USB Programming Guidelines
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0[WAKE_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_1[WAKE_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_2[WAKE_VAL]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_3[WAKE_VAL]
4.
- Set the following registers to '1' to power down the line state detectors of the pad
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_0[USBON_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_1[USBON_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_2[USBON_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[USBOP_VAL_PD]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_PAD_CFG_3[USBON_VAL_PD]
5.
- Write '1' to the following registers to clear alarm of the sleepwalk logic
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_0[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_1[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_2[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
- XUSB_AO_UTMIP_TRIGGERS_3[CLR_WAKE_ALARM]
#### 10.2.3.5 USB 2 Pad Tracking Programming
USB 2 Pad tracking logic should be triggered once during cold boot and SC7 exit to measure and capture the electric parameters of USB 2.0 pads.
- Step 1
Sets up and enables the tracking clocks.
- Set the following CAR register bits to '1' to enable the tracking clocks
1.
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_USB2_HSIC_TRK_SET_0[SET_CLK_ENB_USB2_TRK
]
- Program the following CAR register bits to set the divisor of tracking clocks
2.
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_USB2_HSIC_TRK_0[USB2_HSIC_TRK_CLK_DIVISOR]
- Step 2
Set up the timing parameters: Program the following XUSB registers: 1.
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_1_0[TRK_START_TIMER] to '0x1E'
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_1_0[TRK_DONE_RESET_TIMER] to '0xA'

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Step 3
Power up the pads and the tracking circuit: 1. Set the following XUSB register bits to power up the pads:
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0[PD] to '0'
2. 3. Wait 1 µs.
- Set the following XUSB register bits to power up the tracking circuits and enable the
hardware state machine:
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_1_0[PD_TRK] to '0'
4. Wait 100 µs.
- Step 4
Disable the tracking clocks after tracking completed. 1. Set the following CAR register bits to '1' to disable the tracking clocks:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_USB2_HSIC_TRK_CLR_0[CLR_CLK_ENB_USB2_TRK
]
#### 10.2.3.6 Battery Charging over XUSB
##### 10.2.3.6.1 Initialization
- The common steps below need to be done to ensure that the pads are in the correct mode of
operation for battery charging operations
- Step 1
- Ensure pad power rails are ON, AVDD_USB, and VCLAMP_USB rails are needed
- Step 2
1.
- Power up BIAS Pad by writing '0' to the following register bit in XUSB_PADCTL
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0[PD]
2.
- Put the USB 2 Pad0 in correct power mode for battery charging operations
Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD_ZI].
- Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD2_OVRD_EN] and
XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD0_CTL_0_0[PD2]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[PD_CHG].
- Step 3
1. Take software control over DP/DN, pull ups and pull downs (these should be cleared once all battery charging operation is completed) Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[USBON_RPD_OVRD].

- USB Programming Guidelines
Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[USBON_RPU_OVRD]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[USBOP_RPD_OVRD]. Set to XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[USBOP_RPU_OVRD]. 2.
- Remove all pull ups and pull downs
Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0 [USBON_RPD_OVRD_VAL]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0 [USBON_RPU_OVRD_VAL]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0 [USBOP_RPD_OVRD_VAL]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0 [USBOP_RPU_OVRD_VAL]. 3.
- Enable battery charging related filters
Write '0xa' to XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_TDCD_DBNC_TIMER_0[TDCD_DBNC]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[VDCD_DET_FILTER_EN]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[VDAT_DET_FILTER_EN]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ZIN_FILTER_EN]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ZIP_FILTER_EN].
#### 10.2.3.7 Data Contact Detection
- Step 1
Clear stale status bits by writing '1' to the following register bits in XUSB_PADCTL (below can be done using a single register write) 1.
- XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[DCD_DETECTED]
- Step 2
- Set OP_I_SRC_EN and enable ONRPD
1. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0[USBON_RPD_OVRD_VAL]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[OP_I_SRC_EN]. Wait until data contact detection (DCD) reports data contact: 2.
- Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[DCD_INTR_EN] and wait
until hardware asserts interrupt or,
- Poll XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[DCD_DETECTED] or,
Wait at least 300 ms and at most 900 ms if data contact is not reported.
- Clear OP_I_SRC_EN and USBON_RPD
3. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[OP_I_SRC_EN]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL1_0 [USBON_RPD_OVRD_VAL].
- Clear DCD bit if it is set
4.
- Write '1' to clear
XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[DCD_DETECTED].

- USB Programming Guidelines
#### 10.2.3.8 Primary Charger Detection
- Set OP_SRC_EN and ON_SINK_EN
1. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[OP_SRC_EN]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ON_SINK_EN]. Wait at least 10 ms.
- Check XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[VDAT_DET] and
XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ZIN]. 2. 3. D- is larger than VLGC when both VDAT_DET and ZIN are 1 D- is between VLGC and VDAT_REF when VDAT_DET is 1 and ZIN are 0 D- is smaller than VDAT_REF when both VDAT_DET and ZIN are 0
- Clear OP_SRC_EN and ON_SINK_EN
4. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[OP_SRC_EN]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ON_SINK_EN].
#### 10.2.3.9 Secondary Charger Detection
- Set ON_SRC_EN and OP_SINK_EN
1. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ON_SRC_EN]. Set XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[OP_SINK_EN]. Wait at least 10 ms.
- Check XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[VDAT_DET] and
XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ZIP]. 2. 3. D- is larger than VLGC when both VDAT_DET and ZIP are 1 D- is between VLGC and VDAT_REF when VDAT_DET is 1 and ZIP are 0 D- is smaller than VDAT_REF when both VDAT_DET and ZIP are 0
- Clear ON_SRC_EN and OP_SINK_EN
4. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[ON_SRC_EN]. Clear XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BATTERY_CHRG_OTGPAD0_CTL0_0[OP_SINK_EN].
#### 10.2.3.10 XUSB Programming Guidelines for Device Mode
The pictorial representation of the device mode software stack is shown in the figure below.

- USB Programming Guidelines
**Figure 10.7 Device Mode Software Stack**
##### 10.2.3.10.1 Initialization
The sequence of steps to be performed to initialize the device controller is as follows:
- Step 1
1. Allocate and initialize all device controller related memory data structures: Device controller event ring segment table and the event ring segments that it points to. Control endpoint contexts (one IN and one OUT) and the transfer rings that they point to. 2. Initialize the event ring segment table size register with number of entries in the event ring segment table.
- Initialize the event ring segment table base address register with the physical memory
address of the event ring segment table.
- Initialize the event ring segment table dequeue pointer register with the physical memory
address of the event ring segment pointed by event ring segment table entry 0. 3. 4.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Step 2
1. Initialize the endpoint context register with the physical memory address of the first entry in the array of endpoint contexts (control endpoints).
- Step 3
1.
- Enable the device mode controller by writing '1' to enable bit (Enumeration mode) in the
capability control register.
- Update the 'Device Address' field in the control register upon successfully receiving the
'Set_Address' request from the host. 2.
- Step 4
1. Wait for Set_Configuration request from the host.
- Initialize the required endpoint contexts and the transfer rings depending upon the
configuration/interface selected. Software has to initialize all 32 EP contexts at this step.
- Check for the correctness of the requested configuration with Set_Configuration as
discussion in the subsequent sections. 2.
- Write '1' to 'Run' field (Run mode) in the control register as the last step in completing
Set_Configuration request from the host.
- The hardware fetches all 32 EP contexts before setting 'Run' bit to '1,' The valid EPs are
identified by looking at EP.Type field in the endpoint context. Note: All registers (PCI configuration space) are memory mapped in the Orin platform. Note: The device controller has the option to generate an interrupt whenever an event is posted to the event ring (including SETUP).
##### 10.2.3.10.2 Memory Map: Device Mode
The device mode software interacts with the device mode controller through a set of transfer rings, event rings, various data structures (contexts), and the register interface based on the xHCI specification.

- USB Programming Guidelines
**Figure 10.8 Memory Map for Device Mode**
##### 10.2.3.10.3 Hardware and Software Interaction
The device mode controller could operate either in super speed or high-speed mode.

- USB Programming Guidelines
**Figure 10.9 Software/Hardware Interaction in Device Mode**

- USB Programming Guidelines
##### 10.2.3.10.4 Modes
- Enumeration Mode
The device mode controller is in enumeration mode when the enable bit transitions from '0' to '1.' While in enumeration mode, the software services the standard USB enumeration related requests from the USB host through the default control endpoint. The standard requests that need to be supported by the software are:
- Get_Descriptor
- Get_Configuration
- Get_Interface
- Get_Status
- Synch_Frame
- Set_Address
- Set_Configuration
- Set_Feature
- Clear_Feature
- Set_Interface
- Set_Isoch_Delay
- Set_Sel
The software should also support OTG specific device descriptor fields as described in Chapter 6 of the USB3 OTG specification. The firmware needs to handle the following device requests in the debug mode:
- Get_Configuration, Get_Descriptor, and Get_Status
- Set_Feature, Clear_Feature
- Set_configuration, Set_Address
- Set_Interface, Get_Interface
- Only one interface support. Firmware returns STALL upon receiving the requests targeting
the non-default interface.
- Set_Isoch_Delay, Set_Sel, Sync_Frame
No need to support these requests. Firmware returns STALL upon receiving these requests.
- Set_configuration
The software behavior upon receiving this request varies depending upon the device state as discussed below. Default state: The behavior of the device is unknown upon receiving this request in default state.

- USB Programming Guidelines
Addressed state: If the specified configuration is zero, then the device remains in the addressed state. If the specified configuration value matches the configuration value from a configuration descriptor, then that configuration is selected and the device enters the configured state. Otherwise, the software should respond with STALL by writing to Nth bit in the 'HALT' register. Configured state: If the specified configuration value is zero, then the device enters the address state. If the specified configuration value matches the configuration value from a configuration descriptor, then that configuration is selected and the device remains in the configured state. Otherwise, the device responds with STALL by writing to Nth bit in the 'HALT' register.
- Steps to Handle Set_configuration
- In the Addressed State to set a new configuration
Program EP Context for each endpoint that is enabled by this configuration. Set Reload bit for each Endpoint being enabled. Set Run bit after setting Reload bit for first enabled Endpoint. Wait for all Reload bits to be cleared. Clear all Pause bits corresponding to the Reload bits that were set. Wait for STCHG bits to be set to indicate that Pause has been cleared. Clear all STCHG bits. Clear Halt bits for all configured endpoints. Clear all STCHG bits. Complete Status Stage for the SET_CONFIG request. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10.
- In the Configured State to deconfigure the Device (SET_CONFIG 0)
- Pause all active Endpoints
Program EP State Field in EP context to Disabled for all Endpoints except the default Control
- Endpoint
Clear all Augmented EP Context fields to 0 for all endpoints except for the default Control
- Endpoint
- Clear Run bit in Control register
- Wait for all STCHG bits to be set
- Clear all STCHG bits
- Complete Status stage for SET_CONFIG request
- In the Configured State to Select a Different Configuration
- Do all steps to deconfigure the device as mentioned in "In the Configured State to
deconfigure the device (SET_CONFIG 0)" above Do all steps to select a new configuration as mentioned in "In the Addressed State to set a new configuration" above.
- Removing an Endpoint as Part of the Select Alternate Interface

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Set Pause bit for the Endpoint to be disabled
- Wait for corresponding STCHG bit to be set
- Program EP State field in EP Context of the Endpoint to Disabled
- Clear all fields in Augmented area of EP context to 0
- Set Reload bit for the Endpoint to be disabled
- Wait for STCHG bit to be set
- Clear STCHG bit
- Adding an Endpoint as Part of the Select Alternate Interface
- Initialize EP context for Endpoint to be enabled
- Set Reload bit for the Endpoint to be enabled
- Wait for STCHG bit to be set
- Clear STCHG bit
- Modifying an Endpoint as Part of the Select Alternate Interface
- Do all steps in "Removing an Endpoint as part of the Select Alternate Interface" above to
disable the endpoint Do all steps in "Adding an Endpoint as part of the Select Alternate Interface" above to enable the endpoint again with new parameters
- Run Mode
- The device mode switches from enumeration mode to run mode after receiving a
"Set_Configuration" request from the host. It is the responsibility of the software to write '1' to 'Run bit' field in control register upon successfully receiving the 'Set_Configuration' request from the host. The software should also move the device state from addressed state to configured state.
- Test Mode
- The device mode switches from enumeration mode or run mode to test mode after receiving a
"Set_Feature" request from the host with feature selector set to TEST_MODE. In the test mode, software should trigger the test mode by programming the USB 2.0 Port Test Control register to match the test mode selector 1 ms after the control transfer is completed.
- Device Classes Supported
The device mode must support all device classes. However, the priority is given to BOT/UAS storage classes and mobile communication classes for driver development and verification.

- USB Programming Guidelines
##### 10.2.3.10.5 Endpoints
The device controller supports up to 32 endpoints (16 IN and 16 OUT). The endpoint 0 is the control endpoint which effectively reduces the number of non-control endpoints to 15 IN and 15 OUT. Each endpoint can be set up as IN and OUT direction and as Control, Bulk, or Interrupt transfer type. Isochronous endpoint is not supported.
- Endpoint Contexts
The device uses 64-bytes version of the endpoint context. The data structure of the endpoint contexts for device is identical to host mode. However, the Endpoint context pointer points directly to Endpoint context 0 OUT (Control EP). The device controller owns the endpoint context as long as 'Run' bit is set 1.
**Figure 10.10 EP State Transition**

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Halt an Endpoint
The software could put an endpoint into the halt state by programming HALT register. When in halt state, the device controller responds with STALL for any request from the host targeted at this endpoint. The device/debug controller never puts the endpoint into the halt state directly. The sequence to halt an endpoint is as follows:
- Step 1
If Run bit in the control register is set then proceed to Step 2; otherwise, exit.
- Step 2
- To halt Nth IN endpoint, write '1' to 'Halt EP N IN' field in 'Halt Registers'
- To halt Nth OUT endpoint, write 'Halt EP N OUT' field in 'Halt Register'
- Step 3
Poll the Nth bit in 'State Change EP IN/OUT' register to make sure that EP has been halted by the hardware.
- Pause an Endpoint
The endpoint could be put into pause state either by software or hardware in the device mode by writing to 'Pause EP N IN' or 'Pause EP N OUT' registers fields. When in paused state, the device mode controller responds with NRDY TPs for any host requests targeted at this endpoint. The sequence to pause an Nth EP is as follows:
- Step 1
If 'Run' bit in the control register is set, then proceed to Step 2; otherwise, exit.
- Step 2
- To pause Nth IN endpoint, write '1' to 'Pause EP N IN' field in 'Pause Register'
- To halt Nth OUT endpoint, write '1' to 'Pause EP N OUT' field in 'Pause Register'
- Step 3
- Poll the Nth bit in 'State Change EP IN/OUT' register to make sure that EP has been paused
by the hardware.
- Enabling ISO Endpoints
It is the software's responsibility to make sure that it pauses all non-ISO endpoints while enabling any ISO EP in device mode. This ensures that there are resources available in the device mode

- USB Programming Guidelines
controller while enabling any ISO endpoint. The non-ISO endpoints could be re-enabled once all ISO EPs are enabled.
- Flow Control Threshold
This is purely for the use of the device controller. The software is responsible for enabling/disabling this feature and programming the threshold number for the consecutive IN/OUT request being flow controller.
##### 10.2.3.10.6 Transfer Rings
The device mode controller makes use of transfer ring mechanism to pass the work from software to hardware. The operation/management of the transfer ring in device mode is similar to host mode. Refer to the xHCI specification to understand the transfer ring management. The software initializes the required number of transfer rings depending upon the configuration chosen. The device uses the TRBs and TDs to pass on the work to the hardware.
- Add a TRB to the Transfer Ring
The sequence of steps to add a TRB to the transfer ring is as follows: 1. 2.
- Make sure that a free entry is available to place the new TRB on to the transfer ring
- Write the TRB to the transfer ring pointed by the enqueue pointer
Initialize the 'Cycle bit' field in the TRB to the PCS value. 3. 4.
- Increment the enqueue pointer by the size of the TRB
Inform the hardware to fetch the TRB by writing to the doorbell register present in the MMIO space of the device controller.
- Doorbell Registers
The software has to ring the doorbell upon adding a new TRB to a transfer ring. The device mode controller processes the transfer ring after the doorbell from the software.
- Control Endpoint
There is one major difference while sending a doorbell register write to the control endpoint in the device mode compared to host mode. The difference is illustrated in the below sequence to handle the SETUP request. 1. A SETUP packet event TRB is received by the software/firmware.
- The hardware passes a unique control sequence number (Say X) as part of the SETUP
packet event TRB. 2.
- Software/firmware prepares the status and data stage TRB for the received SETUP request
from the opposite side.

- USB Programming Guidelines
3. Software/firmware informs the hardware about the data and status stage TRB by writing 00h or 01h to 'Doorbell Target' and writing X to 'control sequence number' field in the doorbell registers
##### 10.2.3.10.7 TRB Format
The TRB format of the various endpoints is similar to the format defined in the xHCI specification for the similar endpoints.
- Bulk and Interrupt Endpoints
The bulk and interrupt endpoints use the normal TRB defined in the xHCI specification for their data transfers. Refer to Section 6.4.1.1 in the xHCI specification.
- Control Endpoints
The control endpoints use the data and status stage TRB as defined in the xHCI specification. The data and status stage of the control transfer uses EP 0 context.
- Isochronous Endpoints
The isochronous endpoints use the Isoc TRB defined in the xHCI specification. The debug mode does not support isochronous endpoints.
- Micro-Frame Synchronizer
The device mode controller implements the local frame timer to track the micro-frames and in turn frame ID. The software could read the current Frame ID by accessing FrameID and uFrameID registers in MMIO space.
##### 10.2.3.10.8 Event Ring
- The operation and management of the event ring is similar to device debug capability mode
described in xHCI specification. The device mode supports one event ring defined through event ring segment table, event ring segment table size, event ring segment table base address, and event ring dequeue pointer registers in the register interfaces. Hardware owns the event ring and the software/driver is the consumer of the event ring. Note: Software should always program and use two segments for the event ring.
- Event Ring Non-Empty
- The hardware generates an interrupt upon posting an event TRB to the system memory. The
'Interrupt Pending' field in the status register (offset 0x24h) is set upon posting the event TRB. The

- USB Programming Guidelines
interrupt is generated depending upon whether the 'Interrupt Enable' field in the control register (offset 0x20h) is set or not.
- The event TRBs are generated by the hardware for these transactions,
- IN DMA engine
- Out DMA engine
- Control (Setup), Flow control threshold
- Port status change
- Setup Event TRB
The device controller posts a setup event TRB to the event ring upon receiving a setup transaction from the host. The hardware also generates an interrupt upon posting the event.
- The setup data packet is sent as part of the setup event TRB posted to the event ring. The
software uses Endpoint 0 (IN or OUT) to send data stage and status stage transactions in response to SETUP request from the host. The device controller reports errors if the sequence number or the direction of the data/status stage TRB does not match the control transfer. Notes: 1. If a SETUP request is received when the control EP state is set to "Halted" by software then the hardware clears the halt condition. A "serial number" field is included as part of the SETUP event TRB posted from the hardware. This is useful for the hardware to identify the valid SETUP transaction.
- For example, a new SETUP request was received before the successful completion of the
previous SETUP request of the same control endpoint.
- An event TRB is posted by the hardware when there is a mismatch in the serial number
stored locally (points to latest SETUP) in the hardware and the serial number present in the data/status TRBs fetched as part of the previous SETUP transaction. 2. 3. 4.
- Port Status Change Event Generation (PSCEG)
The hardware places an event TRB of type PSCEG whenever the following fields in the control register change:
- Connect status change (CSC)
- Port reset change (PRC)
- Port link state change (PLC)
- Port configuration link error (CEC)
It is the responsibility of the software to check and clear the above register fields upon receiving the PSCEG event TRBs. The format of the PSCEG event TRB is similar to xHCI defined event TRB with port ID set to 0x0.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Host Rejected Stream Selection Transfer Event TRB
This event TRB is posted to indicate the host rejection for a particular StreamID selected by the device.
- Prime Pipe Received Transfer Event TRB
This event TRB is posted to indicate that host has issued a Prime Pipe transaction for a Bulk Stream Endpoint. Software can use this Event to reschedule a StreamID which has previously been rejected by host. Software should not ring Doorbell to a Stream Enabled Endpoint which had the Stream ID selection rejected by host, until it receives a Prime Pipe Received Transfer Event TRB.
- Stream NumP Error Transfer Event TRB
This Event TRB is posted to indicate that host has violated NumP and PP fields in an ACK TP sent to a Stream enabled endpoint. Software should HALT the Stream Enabled endpoint on receiving this Transfer Event TRB.
- Babble Detected Error Transfer Event TRB
This Event TRB is posted to indicate that host has sent excessive data payload that violates data length field in DP. Software should wait until hardware sets the EP State to Stopped, then clears the EP State and sets the Halt bit of the endpoint to trigger the endpoint to respond subsequent host request with STALL.
- Interrupts
The device mode controller needs to support both MSI (one vector) and legacy interrupts. The hardware generates an interrupt upon posting an event TRB to the event ring. The interrupt generation is moderated (as in host mode) and there are dedicated registers to control the interrupt generation interval (Interrupt modulation interval) and to track the current interrupt counter value (Interrupt modulation counter).
##### 10.2.3.10.9 Port
- Generating a Device Notification Packet
The registers to generate the device notification packet are present in the MMIO space. However, these registers are not exposed to the debug software in debug mode and are implemented as internal registers accessible by the firmware. These registers valid are only for super speed mode and when the device controller is enabled. The software sequence to generate a device notification packet is as follows: 1.
- Set the 'notification type' bit field in the device notification register

- USB Programming Guidelines
2. 3.
- Set the 'notification type specific' bits field in the device notification register
Write '1' to 'device notification packet fire' bit to generate the packet. The bit is cleared by the hardware once the device notification packet has been sent on the USB link.
- Host Connection
The device controller generates a Port Status Change Event upon detection of the host connection. It also sets the Interrupt pending bit in the status register whenever event ring is non-empty. An interrupt is generated to the software if Interrupt Enable bit is set.
- Port Reset Handling
Hardware generates a Port Status Change event TRB upon detecting the port reset from the host. Upon receiving the event TRB, the software checks 'PR' bit in the control register for any port reset. The following sequence is executed upon port reset detection:
- Step 1
1. 2. Poll 'PRC' field in the control register to make sure that the reset sequence is complete. Clear the 'PRC' field in the control registers once the reset sequence is completed.
- Step 2
1.
- Make sure that the port is enabled by looking at 'Port Enabled/Disabled' field of the port
status and control register.
- Step 3
1. 2. 3. Reset the internal states of the software/driver. Remove any pending TDs. Restart transfer rings management.
- Step 4
1. The device is in enumeration mode waiting to be configured from the host.
- Step 5
1.
- Change the device state to 'addressed' once the 'Set_address' request is received from the
host. Write the address assigned to 'Device Address' field in the control register. 2.
- Step 6
1. Wait for 'Set_Configuration' request from the host.
- Initialize the required endpoint contexts and the transfer rings depending upon the
configuration/interface selected. 2. Clear 'Run Change' field in the control register.

- USB Programming Guidelines
3.
- Write '1' to run bit (Run mode) in the control register as the last step in completing
Set_Configuration request from the host.
- Link States
- Connect
- The OTG-B device generates a Port Status Change Event when Vbus presence or removal is
detected. This is not true in the case of OTG A-device switching from host mode to device (Vbus always present).
- The device mode asserts the PME when the Vbus presence is detected, and PME Enable bit and
Wake on Connection bit are set to 0x1. The wake on signaling is controlled by PORTSC register in the case of debug mode.
- Both device and debug modes asserts their PME when Vbus is removed, and the PME Enable bit
and Wake on Disconnection bit are set to 0x1.
- Link Power Management
The software can write to Port Link State field of Port Control register to manage the link states. The Port Link State field reflects the software initiated link state once the hardware completes the link state transition. The device mode can initiate only SS U1 and SS U2 states. The software can initiate SS U1 and U2 entry/exit by programming the Port PM registers (With SS U2 timeout value, SS U1 Enable and SS Force Link PM Accept) as required. For high speed, the device mode responds to L1 depending upon the value programmed into PortPM registers (High speed L1 State). The U3/L2 state transition is always accepted by the device mode /debug mode (only U3).
- Suspend
The software should not enable suspend, resume, and remote wakeup if the port is connected in high-speed and the port is acting either as a host in OTG B-Device or as a device in OTG A-Device. The resulting behavior is unknown for the above case. The software is responsible for EP states (disabled or not) when the links are in suspend state.
- Resume: Device Initiated
The sequence of steps to generate the resume signaling is described below. The sequence remains the same for both device and debug mode. 1. 2. The software decides to send the resume signaling to the opposite side.
- Make sure Device Remote Wake Enable bit (USB 2.0) or Function Remote Wake Enable bit
(USB 3.0) is set. Transition the link to U0 by writing 'U0' to 'Port Link State' field in the port status and control register. 3.

- USB Programming Guidelines
4. Write to the device notification register to generate a 'Function_WAKE' device notification packet (for USB 3.0 only).
- Resume: Host initiated
- The sequence upon detecting host initiated resume signaling is as follows,
1. 2. 3. A port status event TRB is posted upon detecting the resume signaling from the host.
- The Port Link State field of the port control and status register is set to Resume
The software/debug-software should enable the link upon resume signaling by writing 'U0' to 'Port Link' State field.
##### 10.2.3.10.10 Device Mode DVFS Support
Software should set the halt_ltssm and ltssm_state_change_pme_en bits for all SSPI before the SSPI clocks are lowered from their operation frequencies. Software should clear the halt_ltssm and ltssm_state_change_pme_en bits for all SSPI after the SSPI clocks are increased to their operation frequencies. Software should increase the frequencies of SSPI clocks before clearing the halt_ltssm bit to allow LTSSM state transitions for the following LTSSM state transitions requests:
- Rx.Detect to Polling
- U3 to Recovery
- U2 to Recovery (note, this might not be enabled due to the shorter U2 exit time)
Software should clear the halt_ltssm bit to allow the following state transitions requested by SSPI, since they don't require SSPI clocks to be in operating frequency, and then set the halt_ltssm bit again to prevent further LTSSM state transitions:
- Rx.Detect to SS.Disabled
- SS.Disabled to Rx.Detect
- U3 to Rx.Detect
- U2 to Rx.Detect (note, this might not be enabled due to the shorter U2 exit time)
##### 10.2.3.10.11 Mass Storage Class
- Bulk-Only Transport (BOT)
It makes use of one control EP, one bulk IN endpoint, and one bulk OUT endpoint to communicate with the opposite side (host port). However, the throughput achieved using BOT is less because this protocol does not support command queuing. In BOT, every transaction must be completed before the next transaction could be initiated by the host. For backward compatibility, BOT interface should always be declared as first interface.

- USB Programming Guidelines
**Figure 10.11 BOT Diagram**
BOT requests to be supported by the device driver are listed below.
- Bulk-Only Mass Storage Reset (BOMSR)
This class-specific request shall ready the device for the next command from the host. This is sent through control endpoint. bmRequestType bRequest wValue wIndex wLength
- Data
00100001b 11111111b 0000h
- Interface
0000h none The sequences of actions to be taken by the driver are as follows:
- Step 1
The device driver receives the BOMSR command through the SETUP packet.
- Step 2
Decode the type of command requested.
- Step 3
Place the corresponding request on to storage controller.
- Step 4
Wait for the completion of the storage controller reset.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Step 5
Clear the internal variable associated with all interfaces enabled for the chosen configuration. (e.g., reset the transfer rings.)
- Step 6
Prepare and place the Data/status TRB on to the transfer ring once the storage reset is over. The hardware keeps on sending the NRDY until the status TRB is placed on the transfer ring. Notes:
- Only BOMSR and Get Max Len requests are received through the control endpoints. All other
requests are through bulk-endpoints. BOMSR is issued to clear the stall condition. The host sends CLEAR_HALT request for bulk-IN and bulk-OUT endpoints.
- Get Max LUN
The host sends this command to find out the number of logical storages supported by the device. The BOT protocol supports up to 15 LUNs (0 to 15). Most likely, the multiple LUN is not supported with BOT. The SETUP packet fields for the Get Max LUN are: bmRequestType: Class, Interface, device to host bRequest field set to 254 (FEh) wValue field set to 0 wIndex field set to the interface number wLength field set to 1 bmRequestType bRequest wValue wIndex wLength
- Data
10100001b 11111110b 0000h
- Interface
0001h 1 byte The device returns the number of LUNs supported as part of the data stage. The device could choose to send STALL response if multiple LUNs are not supported or could send zero as part of the data stage.
- The driver sequence upon receiving the Get Max LUN is as follows,
- Step 1
- Get Max LUN request is received as part of the SETUP request
- Step 2
- If the command is not supported
Then HALT the endpoint by programming the HALT EP xx register.
- Else
Return the number of LUNs supported as part of the data stage.

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Host Commands to the Mass Storage Device
- Command Block Wrapper (CBW)
- The host sends the CBW to the device's bulk OUT endpoint. The CBW contains a command block
and other information about the command. The size of CBW is 31 bytes. The driver steps, upon receiving the CBW, is as follows:
- Step 1
- Check the validity of the CBW structure
CBW is received after a CSW or reset. The CBW is 31 bytes. The dCBWSignature field has the correct value.
- Step 2
Check that the contents are valid. All of the reserved bits are zero. The bCBWLUN field contains a supported LUN value. The bCBWCBLength and CBWCB fields are valid for the interface's subclass.
- Step 3
Prepare to receive or send the data to host.
- Step 4
- If sending data then get the data from the internal storage device and place the
corresponding TRBs on the transfer ring.
- Step 5
If receiving the data then get the data from the host and write it to the internal storage.
- Data Phase
There is no data transfer between CBW phase and CSW phase if dCBWDataTransferLength is zero.
- Common Status Write (CSW)
This is sent by the device to the host once the data transfer or the command phase is completed. The size of the CSW is 13 bytes. This is sent through the bulk-IN endpoint. Notes: The specification does not specify the timeout for host initiated requests targeted to mass storage device. The windows operation system implements around 20-30 seconds (some source, need to check)

- USB Programming Guidelines
- STALL
The bulk-IN endpoints should be halted upon sending a STALL response to the opposite side. The
- STALL response is sent in the following scenarios,
The device sends the less data than the requested amount during bulk-IN data phase. If the received CBW request is invalid. Bulk-OUT could be halted or accept and discard any received data on the endpoint (preferred). Notes: There is no support for bidirectional data transfer in a single command.
- BOT protocol does not support more than one outstanding CBW request to the device
(command queuing)
- Standard Descriptors
The descriptor data returned by the device to the hose is speed dependent. Depending upon the current operating mode (High speed or Superspeed), the device driver returns the configuration information corresponding to that mode only.
- Table 10.2 Device Descriptor (one per device)
- Offset
- Field
- Size
- Value
- Description
bLength 0x12
- Size of this descriptor
bDescriptorType 0x1 bcdUSB 0x0300h bDeviceClass bDeviceSubClass bDeviceProtocol bMaxPacketSize0
- HS – 0x40
- SS – 0x9
idVendor idProduct bcdDevice iManufacturer iProduct iSerialNumber bNumConfigurations

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Configuration Descriptor
offset
- Field
- Size
- Value
- Description
bLength 0x9 bDescriptorType 0x2 wTotalLength bNumInterfaces bConfigurationValue iConfiguration bmAttributes 8b'01100000
- Self powered – Yes
- Remote wakeup – Yes
bMaxPower
- Expressed in units of 8mA for
super speed.
- Interface Configuration (both SS and HS)
- Offs
et
- Field
- Siz
e
- Value
- Description
bLength 0x9 bDescriptorTy pe 0x4 bInterfaceNum ber bAlternateSett ing
- UASP is secondary setting for backward compatibility. BOT is the primary
alternate setting (0). bNumEndpoint s bInterfaceClas s 0x8 bInterfaceSub
- Class
bInterfaceProt ocol 0x50
- BOT
iInterface
- Endpoint Configuration (both HS/SS)
- Bulk-IN

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Offset
- Field
- Size
- Value
- Description
bLength 0x7 bDescriptorType 0x5 bEndpointAddress 0x81 bmAttributes 0x2 wMaxPacketSize
- HS – 512
- SS – 1024
bInterval 00h
- Bulk-OUT
- Offset
- Field
- Size
- Value
- Description
bLength 0x7 bDescriptorType 0x5 bEndpointAddress 0x01 bmAttributes 0x2 wMaxPacketSize
- HS – 512
- SS – 1024
bInterval 00h Notes: The values of some fields change as per the device of the speed. Refer to BOT specification to know more about the descriptor details.
- Table 10.3 String Descriptor
- Offset
- Field
- Size
- Value
- Description
bLength bDescriptor wString1
- Serial number character 1
- WString2
- Serial number character 2

- USB Programming Guidelines
- Offset
- Field
- Size
- Value
- Description
sString12
- Serial number is at least 12 characters
long
#### 10.2.3.11 Recommended PHY Settings
Contact your local NVIDIA representative for PHY settings specific to your design.
#### 10.2.3.12 BIAS PAD Configuration
- The UTMIP BIAS pad is shared across USB_OTG and XUSB controllers and the below common bias
pad settings need to be configured from the USB1 controller only. USB1_UTMIP_BIAS_CFG0_0:
- UTMIP_BIASPD
- UTMIP_HSCHIRP_LEVEL
- UTMIP_HSSQUELCH_LEVEL
- UTMIP_HSDISCON_LEVEL_MSB
- UTMIP_HSDISCON_LEVEL
- UTMIP_ACTIVE_TERM_OFFSET
- UTMIP_ACTIVE_PULLUP_OFFSET
- UTMIP_VBUS_LEVEL_LEVEL
- UTMIP_SESS_LEVEL_LEVEL
USB1_UTMIP_BIAS_CFG1_0:
- UTMIP_FORCE_PDTRK_POWERUP
- UTMIP_FORCE_PDTRK_POWERDOWN
Following is the sequence to configure above parameters of the BIAS pad:
- Enable the clock to the USB1 controller
Set any of above parameters as required. Disable the clock to the USB1 controller if it is not used. 1. 2. 3.
#### 10.2.3.13 Boot ROM Initialization Sequence for USB Recovery
Program PLL_U. 1.
- Set the PLLU_BASE register fields, PLLU_DIVM, PLLU_DIVN, PLLU_VCO_FREQ,
PLLU_BYPASS and PLLU_ENABLE fields as described in this document.
- Configure USB_OTG
2.

- USB Programming Guidelines
Bring up USB_OTG clocks by writing 1 to CLK_ENB_USBD in the CLK_OUT_ENB_L register.
- Assert and deassert the master USBD reset in the CAR block (SWR_USBD_RST in the
RST_DEVICES_L register) to bring USB_OTG out of reset.
- Stop the crystal clock by setting UTMIP_PHY_XTAL_CLOCKEN in the UTMIP_MISC_CFG1
register to 0. This only stops the crystal clocks in the UTMIP units. - - The default value of USB1_UTMIP_PHY_XTAL_CLOCKEN (= 1) now changes to 0.
- To use the A Session Valid for cable detection logic, set the USB1_VBUS_SENSE_CTL field
in the USB1_LEGACY_CTRL register to A_SESS_VLD (2'b11). Program the automatic PLL start times.
- Set USB1_IF_UTMIP_PLLU_ENABLE_DLY_COUNT, UTMIP_PLLU_STABLE_COUNT,
- UTMIP_PLL_ACTIVE_DLY_COUNT and UTMIP_XTAL_FREQ_COUNT as per the values given in
this document. Program the tracking duration.
- Set USB1_IF_UTMIP_BIAS_CFG1.UTMIP_BIAS_PDTRK_COUNT as per the values given in this
document. Program the debouncer length times. Set UTMIP_DEBOUNCE_CFG0.UTMIP_BIAS_DEBOUNCE_A field. Program various static parameters of the USB_OTG UTMIP1. - - - - - - - Set UTMIP_TX_CFG0.UTMIP_FS_PREAMBLE_J to 0x1. Set UTMIP_BAT_CHRG_CFG0.UTMIP_PD_CHRG to 1. Set UTMIP_XCVR_CFG0.UTMIP_XCVR_LSBIAS_SEL to 0. Set the third bit of UTMIP_SPARE_CFG0 to 1. i.e., UTMIP_SPARE_CFG0[3] to 1. Set UTMIP_HSRX_CFG0. UTMIP_IDLE_WAIT as per the values given in this document. Set UTMIP_HSRX_CFG0.UTMIP_ELASTIC_LIMIT to 16.
- Set UTMIP_HSRX_CFG1.UTMIP_HS_SYNC_START_DLY to 9
- Restart the crystal clock by setting UTMIP_PHY_XTAL_CLOCKEN in the UTMIP_MISC_CFG1
register to 1 for USB_OTG. 3.
- Wait for cable connect on the USB_OTG UTMIP1 port. When cable is connected on USB_OTG
UTMIP1 port, continue to the next step.
- Bring UTMIP1 out of reset by writing 0 to the UTMIP_RESET bit of the USB1_IF_SUSP_CTRL
register. Wait until USB1_IF_USB_SUSP_CTRL.PHY_CLK_VALID is set to 1. Then perform USB controller initialization. 4. 5. 6. Reset the bus. Wait until the bus comes out of reset. Set the controller in Device Mode. Perform USB operations.

- USB Programming Guidelines
#### 10.2.3.14 Performance Settings for USB Controllers
To meet USB's strict bandwidth/latency requirements, some AHB programming needs to be done.
- The following gives a guideline on the programming requirements to achieve maximum
performance from USB:
- The burst size for the USB controller should be programmed to 8 in the USB2D_BURSTSIZE
register. Both TXPBURST and RXPBURST fields should be programmed to the same value of 8.
- The ENB_FAST_REARBITRATE field for AHB_MEM gizmo should be set to 1 in the
AHB_GIZMO_AHB_MEM register.
- The IMMEDIATE field for USB gizmos should be set to 1 in the AHB_GIZMO_USB, or
AHB_GIZMO_USB2 register, depending on the controller in use.
- USB controllers should be set as high-priority masters on AHB by setting the bits
corresponding to each USB controller to 1 in AHB_PRIORITY_SELECT field in the register
- AHB_ARBITRATION_PRIORITY_CTRL and setting the priority weight to 7 by setting the
- AHB_PRIORITY_WEIGHT field in the same register. USB master numbers are 6 for USB_OTG
and 18 for USB 2. The priority weight could be relaxed depending on requirements from other AHB masters in the system as required for different use cases.
- The prefetch engine needs to be set up correctly to enable prefetching of transmit data
packets for USB masters. Each USB master needs one channel on the prefetch engine. There are four channels on the prefetch engine. If all three USB masters enable one channel at the same time, it would leave one more channel for another AHB master. Each prefetch channel is controlled by the AHB_AHB_MEM_PREFETCH_CFG[NO] register, where
- NO = 1,2,3,4. To enable prefetch for a USB controller on a channel, program
- AHB_MST_ID_USB, or AHB_MST_ID_USB2 in the AHB_MST_ID field for the
- AHB_AHB_MEM_PREFETCH_CFG[NO] register. The ADDR_BNDRY field should be set to log2
(buffer size) according to the buffer size required for the corresponding USB master. The
- SPEC_THROTTLE field should be set to 0, and the INACTIVITY_TIMEOUT field should be set to
0x800.
- When a particular USB controller is in Host mode, the TXFIFOTHRES field in the
USB2D_TXFILLTUNING register (offset 0x154) should be set to 0x10. All this programming needs to be done before the RS bit in USB2D_USBCMD is set to RUN (1) for the corresponding USB controller.
#### 10.2.3.15 USB Controller Handling of USB Resume Sequence
The USB controller handles a USB resume while the port is under PMC control: The PMC maintains suspend mode on the bus. When auto resume happens, the system starts restoring the USB controller. Set the RUN bit from the USB controller to start SOFs. The USB controller is brought back to suspend state. 1. 2. 3. 4.

- USB Registers
5. 6. Switch the USB bus from the PMC to the USB controller.
- Wait until a resume complete notification from the USB controller. This is handled by the
EHCI driver. Further USB communication can start from here. 7.

