# 2.3.1 of PCI Express Base Specification). Note: The access attributes

of this field are as follows: - Wire: No access. - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W (Sticky) else R (Sticky) Note: This register field is sticky. 15:5
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_5: Reserved for future use.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_CRS_SW_VISIBILITY_EN:
- CRS Software Visibility Enable. When set, this bit enables the Root
- Port to return Configuration Request Retry Status (CRS) Completion
- Status to software (for more details, see section 2.3.1 of PCI Express
- Base Specification). For Root Ports that do not implement this
capability, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: No access. - Dbi:
- ROOT_CONTROL_ROOT_CAPABILITIES_REG.PCIE_CAP_CRS_SW_VISIB
- ILITY ? RW : RO
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_PME_INT_EN:
- PME Interrupt Enable. When set, this bit enables PME interrupt
generation upon receipt of a PME Message as reflected in the PME
- Status bit (for more details, see Table 7-29 of PCI Express Base
- Specification). A PME interrupt is also generated if the PME Status bit
is set when this bit is changed from clear to set.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_SYS_ERR_ON_FATAL_ERR_EN:
- System Error on Fatal Error Enable. If set, this bit indicates that a
- System Error should be generated if a Fatal error (ERR_FATAL) is
reported by any of the devices in the Hierarchy Domain associated with this Root Port, or by the Root Port itself. The mechanism for signaling a System Error to the system is system specific.

- PCIe x1/x4/x8 Root Complex
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_SYS_ERR_ON_NON_FATAL_ERR_EN:
- System Error on Non-Fatal Error Enable. If set, this bit indicates that a
- System Error should be generated if a Non-fatal error
(ERR_NONFATAL) is reported by any of the devices in the Hierarchy
- Domain associated with this Root Port, or by the Root Port itself. The
mechanism for signaling a System Error to the system is system specific.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_SYS_ERR_ON_CORR_ERR_EN:
- System Error on Correctable Error Enable. If set, this bit indicates
that a System Error should be generated if a correctable error (ERR_COR) is reported by any of the devices in the Hierarchy Domain associated with this Root Port, or by the Root Port itself. The mechanism for signaling a System Error to the system is system specific.
- PCIE_X<i>_RC_PF0_PCIE_CAP_ROOT_STATUS_REG_0
where <i> = 1, 4, 8. Description: The Root Status register provides information about PCI Express device specific parameters.
- PCIE_X1_RC_PF0_PCIE_CAP_ROOT_STATUS_REG_0
- PCIE_X4_RC_PF0_PCIE_CAP_ROOT_STATUS_REG_0
- PCIE_X8_RC_PF0_PCIE_CAP_ROOT_STATUS_REG_0
- Offset: 0x90
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

