# 2.5 ms and the minimum width that can be programmed in the GPIO filter is 1 ms. If the duty cycle


- Fan Tachometer
goes below 50%, the glitch filter might filter out the entire pulse and so the glitch filter has to be disabled. A basic RPM calculation is as follows: for a two-pulse per revolution (PPR) fan (WIN_LENGTH=1), if the fan returns 60 pulses per second, then it is 30 (60/2) revolutions per second, which is 1800 (30*60) RPM. To capture the time period of the tachometer input for the duration of one window length: In this case, the tachometer counter clock should be programmed to 1 MHz. The figure below shows the RPM calculation in detail.
**Figure 10.164 Tachometer Counter**
The window length is the number of tachometer input periods that are to be monitored. This is programmed by software using the WINDOW_LENGTH field of the TACH_FAN_TACH0 register. As shown in the above figure, the counter starts incrementing on the first rising edge on every window length and resets to 1 at the beginning of each window length. At the end of each window length, the period value is latched into PERIOD [18:0] field of TACH_FAN_TACH0 register. Software periodically reads these registers for RPM calculation. The reason for having WINDOW_LENGTH is that some FANs provide more than one pulse (2/4/8) for a single rotation. To reduce the overhead in software for these calculations, window length can be modified so that the value read from PERIOD is always the time taken for one rotation, making it easier for RPM calculations. When the fan stops spinning, the rising edge of tachometer input cannot be seen, and the window length never ends. The period value reaches its maximum value. The overflow bit of the TACH_FAN_TACH0 register is set to “Detected” until software clears it. Tachometer monitoring is disabled until the next rising edge of the tachometer is detected.

- Fan Tachometer
To start counting, a pulse is generated indicating the detection of the 1st positive edge on the tachometer input. This pulse triggers the counter to start (starting from 0) and latches the period value when the next edge is detected. Since a 1 MHz clock is used to generate the trigger, the positive edge detection and triggering of counter takes one clock (one unit time), and the counter is run for N-1 unit time (N being the total time period of the pulse). So the counter reports N-1 value instead of N.
- Change of the WIN_LENGTH field takes effect only when the current period calculation is
complete. For example, if the current calculation counts four pulses (WIN_LEN = 2) and software programs this field to start counting one pulse (WIN_LEN = 0), the design completes the current PERIOD calculation based on WIN_LEN = 2 and then (for next PERIOD calculation) starts using WIN_LEN = 0.
**Figure 10.165 Overflow Scenario**
##### 10.17.2.1.2 Fan Control
The figure below provides the overview of the tachometer solution for fan control implementation.

- Fan Tachometer
**Figure 10.166 Tachometer Solution for Fan Control**
The input temperature is mapped to the RPM, based on the temperature vs RPM curve, in order to get the target RPM. The PWM output controller sets the period and duty cycle of PWM_OUT which is fed as an input to the four-wire fan.
- Based on the tachometer input, the period and window length are stored in the tachometer
registers. Software reads the data from these registers periodically, calculates the RPM, and compares with the target RPM. PWM parameters are determined in the RPM correction logic block and serves as an input to the PWM output controller.
- Interrupt Functionality
If Fan RPMs (revolutions per minute) are not monitored, the device can run into power and thermal issues if the Fan RPM moves outside of an expected range. To detect this, interrupt functionality is added to the TACH controller. The TACH controller has the ability to assert interrupt when PERIOD in the WIN_LENGTH field or the number of revolutions programmed into MONITOR_TIME goes higher than UPPER_THRESHOLD or lower than LOWER_THRESHOLD. A configuration bit is provided for software to select the type of monitoring required. For possible conditions when the Fan is spinning too fast:
- Fan inlet and or exhaust is blocked
- Damage such as dust

- Fan Tachometer
For possible conditions when the Fan is spinning too slow:
- Over aging Fan
- Physical damage to the fan
By default, the interrupt functionality is disabled and should be enabled by software after programming the thresholds. When any threshold violation happens, the ERR_STATUS register will capture the error condition (i.e., UNDERRUN or OVERRUN) and the period counter value (ERR_PERIOD) when the error was detected. Hardware provides a configuration bit (STOP_ON_ERR) for software to select if the controller should be stopped on error or continue in the next window.
- Note: In case of a delay in servicing previous interrupt (e.g., UNDERRUN), if the hardware
encounters another error condition (e.g., OVERRUN), hardware will clear the previous logged error from the status register and update the status register with the current error condition.

