# 2.5 G CAR Divisor Programming Changes:

Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. 1. 2. 3.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines
#### 10.8.4.8 MGBE Initialization
The ethernet driver uses the following steps to initialize MGBE.
- Core PLL - PLL Initialization
- For 480 MHz target speed, set MGBE_APP_CLK_SRC_SEL to “2” to select UTMI PLL and
program UTMI PLL to generate 480 MHz. This is the desired setting for 10 G operation.
- For 5 G or lower operation, UTMI PLL divided by 2 is recommended though 408 MHz PLLP
PLL can also be used as a backup option.
- For 408 MHz target speed, set MGBE_APP_CLK_SRC_SEL to “1” to select PLLP PLL and
program PLLP to generate 408 MHz. - Note: This option is not recommended since there is an Rx overflow issue for small packets.
- GbE UPHY PLL2 Initialization
GbE UPHY PLL2 is configured to operate in 10 GE mode.
- Per Lane TX Clock Generation
Per lane TX clocks are derived from GbE UPHY PLL2. Ethernet driver configures per lane speed settings in CAR module.
- De-assert Resets
Once clocks are configured, the following resets should be de-asserted. mgbe<i>_pcs_rstn mgbe<i>_macsec_rstn mgbe<i>_macsec_sysreset_rstn mgbe<i>_mac_rstn Where i={0,1,2,3} is the MGBE instance number.
- Per Lane Bring Up Sequence
Software triggers per lane bring up sequence as follows. 1. 2. 3. 4.
- Set PCS_WRAP_UPHY_HW_INIT_CONTROL_0_0. HW_TX_INIT_EN = 1
- Set PCS_WRAP_UPHY_HW_INIT_CONTROL_0_0. HW_RX_INIT_EN = 1
- Wait for HW_TX_INIT_EN = 0
- Wait for HW_RX_INIT_EN = 0
a.
- Check PCS Lock status by reading the status bit
“PCS_WRAP_INTERRUPT_STATUS_0.PCS_LINK_STS” 5. 6. When PCS is locked, go to next step or repeat lane bring-up sequence. DWC_XPCS Initialization: refer to the "XPCS Initialization" section.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines 7. 8. XGMAC Configuration: refer to the "XGMAC Programming Guidelines" section. Refer to the "MACsec Programming Guidelines" section in the MACsec chapter of this TRM.
##### 10.8.4.8.1 XGMAC Programming Guidelines
- Initializing the DMA
1. Provide a software reset. This resets all of the MAC internal registers and logic. (SWR (bit[0]) of DMA_Mode register).
- Wait for the completion of the reset process (poll SWR (bit 0) of the DMA_Mode register,
which is only cleared after the reset operation is completed. Program the following fields to initialize the DMA_SysBus_Mode register: 2. 3. a. b.
- AAL
- UNDEF
- EAME
- If fixed burst length is enabled (UNDEF = 0), select the maximum burst length possible on
the AXI bus (bits [7:1]). c. d. 4. Create a descriptor list for transmit and receive. In addition, ensure that the DMA owns the receive descriptors (set bit 31 of descriptor TDES3/RDES3). (Descriptor address from start to end of the ring should not cross the 4GB boundary.)
- Program the Transmit and Receive Ring length registers (DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Control2 and
- DMA_CH(#i)_Rx_Control2). The ring length programmed must be at the least be the size of
the descriptor cache of the corresponding DMA. Initialize receive and transmit descriptor list address with the base address of the transmit and receive descriptor (DMA_CH(#i)_TxDesc_List_LAddress, DMA_CH(#i)_RxDesc_List_LAddress). Also, program transmit and receive tail pointer registers indicating to the DMA about the available descriptors (DMA_CH(#i)_TxDesc_Tail_LPointer and
- DMA_CH(#i)_RxDesc_Tail_LPointer). (For 40- or 48-bit addressing mode, program the higher
address List registers (DMA_CH(#i)_TxDesc_List_HAddress,
- DMA_CH(#i)_RxDesc_List_HAddress).)
Enable the interrupts by programming the DMA_CH(#i)_Interrupt_Enable register.
- Program the settings of the DMA_CH(#i)_Control, DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Control and
- DMA_CH(#i)_Rx_Control for the parameters like maximum burst-length (PBL) initiated by
DMA, descriptor skip lengths, OSP in case of TxDMA, RBSZ in case of RxDMA, and so on. Start the Receive and Transmit DMA by bit 0 of the DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Control register and bit 0 of the DMA_CH(#i)_Rx_Control register. Repeat steps 4 to 9 for all DMA Tx and Rx channels selected in the configuration. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10.
- Reconfiguring the DMA
The following reconfigure flow should be followed if DMA reports a bus error, or software writes to registers whose value is supposed to change only during DMA initialization. For example, DMA_Mode DMA_SysBus_Mode, DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Control2 and DMA_CH(#i)_Rx_Control2.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines 1. 2. 3. Set the DMA start to 1’b0 (DMA_CH(#i)_T(R)x_Control.ST). Wait for the DMA channel to enter “Process Stop” (DMA_CH(#i)_Statys,T(R)PS).
- Reconfigure the DMA channel as described in section “Initializing the DMA.”
Note: Follow this process only for registers, which are programed in the “Initializing the DMA” flow, such as DMA_SysBus_Mode, DMA_CH(#i)_T(R)xDesc_List_LAddress, or when “Fatal bus error” Handling. EDMA completes the current ongoing packet transmission or reception before entering “Process Stop." Software should make sure that this process does not cause deadlock. One of the possible options is: Before you run step 1, make sure that the last descriptor with LD is set for TX side. And RX descriptors enough for at least two maximum supported receive packet are allocated.”
- Initializing MTL Registers
1. Program the following fields in MTL_Operation_Mode register to initialize the MTL operation in case of multiple Tx and Rx queues. a. b. ETS Algorithm (ETSALG) when DCB is enabled. Receive Arbitration Algorithm (RAA) as required. 2. 3. Program the receive queue to DMA mapping in MTL_RxQ_DMA_Map0-3 registers.
- Program the priorities mapped to the Selected Traffic Classes in MTL_TC_Prty_Map0-3
registers.
- Program the Transmit Selection Algorithm (TSA) in MTL_TC(#i)_ETS_Control register for all
the Selected Traffic Classes (n=0, 1, …, Max selected number of TCs - 1). 4.
- Note: The ETS Algorithm (ETSALG) programmed in MTL_Operation_Mode takes effect only when
the TSA bit for the corresponding traffic class is programmed to ETS (2’b10). 1.
- Program the following fields to initialize the mode of operation in the
MTL_TxQ0_Operation_Mode register. a. b. Transmit Store and Forward (TSF). Transmit Threshold Control (TTC). Transmit Queue Enable (TXQEN) to value 2‘b10 to enable Transmit Queue0. Transmit Queue Size (TQS).
- Queue to Traffic Class Mapping (Q2TCMAP). Program which traffic class is mapped to the
corresponding queue. c. d. e. 2.
- Program the following fields to initialize the mode of operation in the
MTL_RxQ0_Operation_Mode register: a. b. Receive Store and Forward (RSF).
- Flow Control Activation and De-activation thresholds for MTL Receive and Transmit FIFO
(RFA and RFD). Error Packet and undersized good Packet forwarding enable (FEP and FUP). Receive Queue Size (RQS). c. d. Repeat previous two steps for all MTL Tx and Rx queues selected in the configuration.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines
- Initializing the MAC
The following MAC Initialization operations can be performed after DMA initialization. If the MAC initialization is completed before the DMA is configured, enable the MAC receiver (last step in the following sequence) only after the DMA is active. Otherwise, received frames fill the Rx FIFO and cause overflow. 1. 2. Provide the MAC address registers: MAC_Address0_High and MAC_Address0_Low.
- Program the following fields to set the appropriate filters for the incoming frames in the
MAC_Packet_Filter register: a. b. Receive all. Promiscuous mode. Hash or Perfect Filter. Unicast, multicast, broadcast, and control frames filter settings. c. d. 3. Program the following fields for proper flow control in the MAC_Q0_Tx_Flow_Ctrl register: a. b. Pause time and other Pause frame control bits. Transmit Flow control bits. Flow Control Busy. c. 4.
- Program the MAC_Interrupt_Enable register, as required, and if applicable, for your
configuration.
- Program the appropriate fields in the MAC_Tx_Configuration and MAC_Rx_Configuration
registers. For example, interpacket gap while transmission and jabber disable.
- Set bit 0 in both the MAC_Tx_Configuration and MAC_Rx_Configuration registers to start the
MAC transmitter and receiver. 5. 6. Note: To support Jumbo packets: For Transmit side, program the JD field in the MAC_Tx_Configuration register to 1. For Receive side, program the WD field in the MAC_Rx_Configuration register to 1.
- Performing Normal Receive and Transmit Operation
For normal operation, complete the following steps: 1.
- For normal transmit and receive interrupts, read the interrupt status. Then, poll the
descriptors, reading the status of the descriptor owned by the Host (either transmit or receive). Set appropriate values for the descriptors, ensuring that DMA owns the transmit and receive descriptors to resume the transmission and reception of data.
- If the DMA (or no descriptor is available) does not own the descriptors, the DMA goes into
- SUSPEND state. The transmission or reception can be resumed by freeing the descriptors
and writing the descriptor tail pointer to the Tx/Rx tail pointer register (DMA_CH(#i)_TxDesc_Tail_LPointer and DMA_CH(#i)_RxDesc_Tail_LPointer). 2. 3.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines 4. The values of the current host transmitter or receiver descriptor address pointer can be read for the debug process: a. b.
- DMA_CH(#i)_Current_App_TxDesc_L
- DMA_CH(#i)_Current_App_RxDesc_L
5.
- The values of the current host transmit buffer address pointer and receive buffer address
pointer can be read for the debug process: a. b.
- Register DMA_CH(#i)_Current_App_TxBuffer_L
- DMA_CH(#i)_Current_App_TxBuffer_H
- DMA_CH(#i)_Current_App_RxBuffer_L
- DMA_CH(#i)_Current_App_RxBuffer_H
c. d.
- Stopping and Starting Transmission
Complete the following steps to pause the transmission for some period of time and then restart it: 1. Disable the Transmit DMA (if applicable) by clearing Bit 0 (ST) of the DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Control register.
- Wait for any previous frame transmissions to complete. You can check this by reading the
appropriate bits of the MTL_TxQ0_Debug register (TRCSTS is not 01 and TXQSTS = 0).
- Disable the MAC transmitter and MAC receiver by clearing Bit 0 (RE) of the
MAC_Rx_Configuration and Bit 0 (TE) of the MAC_Tx_Configuration register.
- Disable the Receive DMA (if applicable), after ensuring that the data in the Rx FIFO is
transferred to the system memory (by reading the appropriate bits of the MTL_RxQ0_Debug register, PRXQ = 0 and RXQSTS = 00).
- Ensure that both the Tx Queue and Rx Queue are empty (TXQSTS is 0 in the
MTL_TxQ0_Debug register and RXQSTS is 0 in the MTL_RxQ0_Debug register). Restart the DMAs. Enable the MAC Transmitter and Receiver. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
- Programming Guidelines for Switching to New Descriptor List in RxDMA
Switching to a new descriptor list is different in Rx DMA as compared to Tx DMA. Switching to a new descriptor list is permitted when the RxDMA is in SUSPEND state. This is because: Generally, RxDMA prepares the descriptors in advance.
- If the RxDMA goes to SUSPEND due to descriptors not being available, which is a major
failure (software is not able to free the filled-up descriptors/buffers). If this is not rectified immediately, it leads to loss of frames due to RxFIFO Overflow. So, the software can create a new descriptor list and program the RxDMA to start using it immediately, without going into STOP state. Programming Guidelines for Multi-Channel, Multi-Queuing Transmit:

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines Transmit: 1. Program the Transmit Queue Size in the TQS field, Transmit Queue Enable in the TXQEN field,
- Transmit queue to Traffic class mapping in Q2TCMAP field (when more than one traffic class
is selected) of MTL_TxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode register. Based on the value programmed in TQS field, the size of the queue is determined. In the Transmit operation, the number of Tx DMA channels is equal to the number of the queues. Due to this reason, the Channel to Queue mapping is fixed. Program the TSA field in the MTL_TC(#i)_ETS_Control register when DCB feature is selected.
- When TSA field is set to ETS, the ETSALG of the MTL_Operation_Mode register is used for
scheduling packets belonging to that traffic class.
- The ETS Algorithm method needs to be programmed in ETSALG of MTL_Operation_Mode
register.
- If DCB is enabled program the MTL_TC(#i)_Quantum_Weight for DCB queue as per the
selected algorithm.
- If DCB is enabled and PFC function is required, program MTL_TC_Prty_Map(#i) Register to
assign a priority to the queue. This priority assigned is used for determining if the corresponding queue should stop transmitting packet based on the received PFC packet. 2. 3. 4. 5. Receive: 1. Program the Receive Queue Size in the RQS field of MTL_RxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode register. Based on the value programmed in RQS field, the size of the queue is determined.
- Enable the Receive Queues 0 to 11 in the fields RXQ0EN to RXQ11EN in the MAC_RxQ_Ctrl0
register for DCB. In DMA configurations, SR bit of statically or dynamically mapped
- DMA_CH(#i)_Rx_Control. Register and corresponding RXQ(#i)_EN in MAC_RxQ_Ctrl0 register
needs to be enabled. The MAC routes the Rx packets to the Rx Queues based on the following packet types: 2. 3. a.
- Data Center Bridging (DCB) related Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP) packets
i.
- Program DCBCPQ in MAC_RxQ_Ctrl1 register to indicate to MAC which queue should get
the DCB packets. b.
- Multicast or Broadcast packets
i.
- Program the MCBCQ field of the MAC_RxQ_Ctrl1 register to indicate which queue should
receive Multicast and Broadcast packets. c.
- VLAN Tag Priority field in VLAN Tagged packets
i.
- Program PSRQ7-0 of the MAC_RxQ_Ctrl3 and MAC_RxQ_Ctrl2 registers for the routing
of tagged packets. This should be based on the USP field (user Priority) of the received packets to the Rx queues 0-7. d.
- Untagged packets
i.
- Program the UPQ field of the MAC_RxQ_Ctrl1 register to route untagged packets to the
desired Rx Queue. 4.
- If multiple RX DMA channels are enabled, perform the following programming steps to
ensure proper arbitration and mapping:

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines a.
- Program the RAA field of MTL_Operation_Mode registers to select the arbitration
algorithm to decide which RxQ is read out from the RxFIFO memory.
- Program the MTL_RxQ(#i)_Control to determine the weights and the packet arbitration for
each RxQ.
- If static mapping is programmed in the MTL_RxQ_DMA_MAP(#i) register
(RXQ(#i)DADMACH is reset to 0), program bits RXQx2DMA and others to select the channel for which each queue is mapped.
- Set RXQ(#i)DADMACH bit in the MTL_RxQ_DMA_Map0 register to select dynamic mapping
of packets in each RxQueue.
- If L3-L4 filtering feature is enabled, program the DMCHEN and DMCHN fields in the
MAC_L3_L4_Control(#i) registers for each filter as required. If RSS feature is enabled, program the DMCH field in the RSS_Lookup_Data register.
- In dynamic channel mapping, the routing of a packet to a specific RxDMA channel is
decided by one of the following in the same priority order: b. c. d. e. i.
- The DMCHN field in the MAC_L3_L4_Control(#i) register when L3-L4 filtering is selected
and the packet passes one of the L3-L4 filters. The value of DCS field in the lowest MAC Address register. The DMCH field in the RSS_Lookup_Data. ii. iii.
- Programming Guidelines for XGMII Link State Transitions
- Transmit and Receive Clocks Running when Link Down
- Complete the following steps when the link is down but the Transmit and Receive clocks are
running: Disable the Transmit DMA by clearing Bit 0 (ST) of the DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Control register. Disable the MAC receiver by clearing Bit 0 (RE) of the MAC_Rx_Configuration register. Wait for any previous frame transmissions to complete.
- You can check this by reading the appropriate bits of the MTL_TxQ0_Debug register (TRCSTS
is not 01). Alternatively, flush the Tx FIFO for faster empty operation. Disable the MAC transmitter by clearing Bit 0(TE) of the MAC_Tx_Configuration register.
- Make sure that both the Tx Queue and Rx Queue are empty (TXQSTS is 0 in the
MTL_TxQ0_Debug register, and RXQSTS is 0 in the MTL_RxQ0_Debug register). After the link is up, read the PHY registers to know the latest configuration and accordingly program the MAC registers. Restart the operation by starting the Tx DMA. You do not need to disable the Rx DMA. Enable the MAC Transmitter and Receiver. As the MAC Receiver is disabled, the FIFO does not get any data in the Rx FIFO. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8.
- Transmit and Receive Clocks Stopped when Link Down

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines 1.
- Complete the following steps when the link is down and the Transmit and Receive clocks are
stopped:
- Disable the MAC Transmitter and Receiver by clearing the RE and TE bits of the
- MAC_Rx_Configuration and MAC_Tx_Configuration registers. This does not take effect
immediately because the clocks are absent. Wait until the link is up and the clocks are restored.
- Wait for the completion of the transfer of any partial frame if any at time of stopping of
- Transmit/Receive clock. This can be checked by reading the MAC_Debug Register (should be
all-zero). Some old packets may remain in the TXFIFO as the MAC Transmitter is stopped.
- Read the PHY registers to know the latest operating mode and accordingly program the MAC
registers. Restart the MAC Transmitter and Receiver by setting RE and TE bits. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
- Programming Guidelines for AV Feature
- Initializing the DMA
This initialization sequence is used only for XGMAC-AHB configuration with AV feature. Complete the following steps to initialize the DMA: Provide a software reset to reset all internal registers and logic (bit 0 in DMA_Mode register). Wait for the completion of the reset process. Poll bit 0 of the DMA_Mode register), which is cleared only after the reset operation is completed. Program the fields to initialize the DMA register by setting the values in DMA_Mode register.
- Create a proper descriptor list for transmit and receive. In addition, ensure that the DMA
owns the Transmit and Receive descriptors. When OSF mode is used, at least two Tx descriptors are required. Make sure that your software creates three or more different transmit or receive descriptors in the list before reusing any of the descriptors. Program the Transmit and Receive Ring length registers DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Control2 register. The ring length programmed must be at least 4. Initialize receive and transmit descriptor list address with the base address of the transmit and receive descriptor DMA_CH(#i)_TxDesc_List_Address Register. In addition, you must program the Transmit and Receive tail pointer registers indicating to the DMA about the available descriptors (DMA_CH(#i)_Tx_Desc_Tail_Pointer) register.
- Program the following fields to initialize the mode of operation in the
MTL_TxQ0_Operation_Mode register: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. Transmit Store and Forward (TSF). Transmit Threshold Control (TTC). Transmit Queue Enable (TXQEN) to value 2‘b10 to enable Transmit Queue0. Transmit Queue Size (TQS). a. b. c. d. Enable the interrupts by programming the DMC_CH(#i)_Interrupt_Enable register. 9.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines 10. 11. Repeat steps 4 through 9 for all additional channels of AV feature. Program the CBS control register, idleSlope, sendSlope, hiCredit, and loCredit registers of the AV Queues.
- Start the Receive and Transmit DMA by setting bit 0 of the DMA_CH(#i)_TX_Control register
and bit 0 of the DMA_CH(#i)_RX_Control register. 12.
- Enabling Slot Number Checking
You can use the slot number check feature to specify the intervals at which the DMA Channels mapped to AV Queues fetch the frames from the AHB/AXI system bus. This feature is useful for a uniform and periodic transfer of the AV traffic from the host memory. The feature is available only when you enable timestamping and program the MAC_Sub_Second_Increment register. Complete the following steps to enable the slot number checking: Note: These steps should be completed after step 11 and before step 12 of “Initializing the DMA.” 1. Enable timestamping by following the steps described in “Initialization Guideline for System
- Time Generation.”
- Make sure that the SLOTNUM field (bits 22:19) of TDES3 Normal Descriptor (Read Format)
contains a valid slot number. You can read the current reference slot number from the
- DMA_CH(#i)_Slot_Function_Control_Status Registers. For more details, refer to “TDES3
normal descriptor (Read Format).” Set Bit 0 (ESC) of the Slot Function Control and Status register of a channel to enable the slot number checking. 2. 3.
- Enabling Average Bits Per Slot Reporting
The CBS Status register of the additional AV channels provides information about the average bits that are transmitted in a slot. The software can asynchronously read this register to retrieve information about the average bits transmitted per slot. Complete the following steps to enable average bits per slot reporting: 1. Enable timestamping by following the steps described in the section “Initialization Guideline for System Time Generation.”
- Program Bits [6:4], SLC, of the MTL_TxQ(#i)_ETS_Control register of a channel with number
of slots over which the average-transmitted bits per slot require computing.
- Enable Bit 9(ABPSSIE) of the MTL_Q(#i)_Interrupt_Control_Status register of a channel to
generate the average bits per slot interrupt.
- Read Bits [16:0], ABS, from the MTL_TxQ(#i)_ETS_Status register of a channel on each
interrupt. 2. 3. 4. Notes: 1.
- The frequency of this interrupt depends on the value programmed in the step2. For example,
when you program value 0 in the SLC field, the interrupt is generated at every 125 microseconds. When not required, you can disable this interrupt to stop the interrupt flooding.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines 2. The software can read the ABS bits in polling mode even if the ABPSIE bit is not enabled. When high, bit 1 (ABPSIS) of the MTL_TxQ(#i)_ETS_Status register indicates that a new value is updated in the ABS field.
- Disabling Flow Control for AV Enabled Queues
- Transmit Flow Control
- Program the EHFC (Enable Hardware Flow Control) bit of corresponding Rx Queue's
MTL_RxQ(#i)_Operation_Mode register to 0.
- Receive Flow Control
- Program the PSTC(#i) field corresponding to AV enabled Tx Queue in MAC_TC_Prty_Map0/1
- Programming Guidelines for Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE)
- Entering and Exiting the Tx LPI Mode
Complete the following steps during DWC_xgmac controller initialization:
- Read the PHY register through the MDIO interface, check if the remote end has the EEE
capability, and then negotiate the timer values.
- Program the PHY registers through the MDIO interface (including the RX_CLK_stoppable bit
that indicates to the PHY whether to stop Rx clock in LPI mode.)
- Program LST (bits[25:16]) and TWT (bits[15:0]) in MAC_LPI_Timers_Control Register
For GMII, read the link status of the PHY chip by using the MDIO interface and update Bit 17 of MAC_LPI_Control_Status Register accordingly. This update should be done whenever the link status in the PHY chip changes. For XGMII, the update is automatic unless PLSDIS bit is set.
- Program the MAC_1US_Tic_Counter as per the frequency of the clock used for accessing the
CSR slave port.
- Program the MAC_LPI_Auto_Entry_Timer register (LPIET) with the IDLE time for which the
MAC should wait before entering the LPI state on its own.
- Set LPIATE and LPITXA (bit[20:19]) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to enable the auto-
entry into LPI and auto-exit of MAC from LPI state.
- Set LPITXEN (bit[16]) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to make the MAC Transmitter
enter the LPI state. The MAC enters the LPI mode after completing all scheduled packets and remain IDLE for the time indicated by LPIET. It sets the TLPIEN (bit[0]) after entry to LPI state.
- When a packet is scheduled for transmission (when the TxDMA comes out of IDLE state or
when a packet is presented at ATI or MTI interface), the MAC Transmitter exits LPI state automatically. It waits for TWT time before setting the TLPIEX interrupt status bit and then resumes the packet transmission. MAC Transmitter reenters LPI state if it remains IDLE for LPIET time and set the TLPIEN bit and thus the entry-exit cycle continues. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines 11.
- Reset LPITXEN in case the software wishes to override the auto-entry/exit modes and make
the MAC Transmitter exit the Low-Power Idle (LPI) state directly. Notes: 1.
- To make the MAC enter the LPI state only after it completes the transmission of all queued
frames in the Tx FIFO, you should set Bit 19 in MAC_LPI_Control_Status register. To switch off the Transmit Clock during the LPI state, use the sbd_tx_clk_gating_ctrl_o signal for gating the clock input.
- To switch off the CSR clock or power to the rest of the system during the LPI state, you
should wait for the TLPIEN interrupt of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to be generated.
- Restore the
clocks before performing step 6 when you want to come out of the LPI state. 2. 3.
- Gating Off the CSR Clock in the LPI Mode
You can gate off the CSR clock to save the power when the MAC is in the LPI mode.
- Gating Off the CSR Clock in the Rx LPI Mode
The following operations are performed when the MAC receives the LPI pattern from the PHY. 1.
- The MAC RX enters the LPI mode and the Rx LPI entry interrupt status [RLPIEN interrupt of
MAC_LPI_Control_Status Register] is set. The interrupt pin (sbd_intr_o) is asserted. The sbd_intr_o interrupt is cleared when the host reads the MAC_LPI_Control_Status register.
- After the sbd_intr_o interrupt is asserted and the MAC Tx is also in the LPI mode, you can
gate off the CSR clock. If the MAC TX is not in the LPI mode when you gate off the CSR clock, the events on the MAC transmitter do not get reported or updated in the CSR.
- For restoring the CSR clock, wait for the LPI exit indication from the PHY after which the
- MAC asserts the LPI exit interrupt on lpi_intr_o (synchronous to clk_rx_312pt5_i). The
lpi_intr_o interrupt is cleared when MAC_LPI_Control_Status Register is read. 2.
- Gating Off the CSR Clock in the Tx LPI Mode
The following operations are performed when Bit 16 (LPIEN) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register is set: 1. 2. The Transmit LPI Entry interrupt (TLPIEN bit of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register) is set. The interrupt pin (sbd_intr_o) is asserted. The sbd_intr_o interrupt is cleared when the host reads the MAC_LPI_Control_Status Register.
- After the sbd_intr_o interrupt is asserted and the MAC RX is also in the LPI mode, you can
gate off the CSR clock. If the MAC RX is not in the LPI mode when you gate off the CSR clock, the events on the MAC receiver do not get reported or updated in the CSR.
- For restoring the CSR clock, switch on the CSR clock when the MAC has to come out of the
TX LPI mode. After the CSR clock is resumed, reset Bit 16 (LPIEN) of MAC_LPI_Control_Status register to bring the MAC out of the LPI mode.

10G Ethernet Programming Guidelines
- Programming Guidelines for Configuring XGMAC Tx in EEE State
Follow these steps to enable the EEE mode in transmit direction. 1. 2. 3.
- Program MAC_LPI_Timers_Control.LST = 1sec (default)
- Program MAC_LPI_Timers_Control.TWT = 0 (default)
Program MAC_1US_Tic_Counter = 0x198 (Programmed based on PCLK frequency of 408MHz.
- Change it if PCLK Freq is different) //Same as PCLK frequency
- Program MAC_LPI_Auto_Entry_Timer.LPIET = 0 (default) //Idle time before entering LPI mode
- Set MAC_LPI_Control_Status.LPIATE = 1 //Auto Exit from LPI state
- Set MAC_LPI_Control_Status.LPITXA = 1 //Auto Entry from LPI state
- Set MAC_LPI_Control_Status.LPITXEN = 1 //Enable LPI Transmission
4. 5. 6. 7. Software can also manually enable EEE state by setting the following bits: 1. 2. 3.
- Set MAC_LPI_Control_Status.LPIATE = 0 //Disable Auto Exit mode
- Set MAC_LPI_Control_Status.LPITXA = 0 //Disable Auto Entry mode
- Set MAC_LPI_Control_Status.LPITXEN = 1 //Enable LPI Transmission
Software should program the following overrides to “0” for power savings (disable free running clocks). The default value is “1” (free running clocks ON).
- MGBE_WRAP_CLOCK_CTRL_0 à “0” to disable free running clocks in XGMAC for AXI, RX, and
- TX clocks
XGMAC Tx indicates the EEE state by driving output signal “sdb_tx_clk_gating_ctrl_o” to “1.” In the MGBE wrapper, this signal is used in the SLCG cell to clock gate “MAC_TX_CLK”.
- Programming Guidelines for Configuring XGMAC Rx in EEE State
Follow these steps to enable EEE mode in receive direction: 1. 2.
- Set MAC_Interrupt_Enable.LPIIE = 1
- When MAC receives LPI pattern on XGMII interface, it sets MAC_LPI_Control_Status.RLPIEN =

