# 200 ns

- Allow internal bias to power
down.
- Note: The sequence shows a single edge for SLEEP, DATA_READY, and DATA_EN events but these
events should be staggered across lanes.
- Table 10.39 Power Down Timing: Lane
- Symbo
l
- Parameter
- Min
- Ma
x
- Notes
- Minimum
- SLEEP active
time. 1 µs
- Minimum time hold time between stopping a power down sequence and
starting a power up sequence.
- TSLEEP-
- MIN
- Exit event to
data active time. ns
- Defines the time allocated to power up the lanes and prepared them for
sending and receiving data. Measured from the start of an exit request to where TX/RX are permitted to move into a data active state.
- TEXIT-
- DATAEN
**Figure 10.75 Lane Power Down Sequence**
- Staggering
In order to minimize power transients, it is required to stagger that the SLEEP, DATA_READY, and DATA_EN events across the lanes in the link. The staggering sequence is composed of the delta between events and the step between lanes for each event.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.76 Power Up Sequence: Lane Staggering**
- Table 10.40 Stagger Timing: Lane
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Mi
n
- Def
- Max
- Notes
- TSLEEP-
- STEP
- SLEEP step time
between lanes. ns 35 ns 500 ns
- Wait time between lanes. Programmed through
- PCS_WRAP_UPHY_TX_CONTROL_1_0 and
PCS_WRAP_UPHY_RX_CONTROL_1_0 registers. T
- DATAREADY-
- STEP
- DATA_READY step
time between lanes. ns 35 ns 500 ns
- Wait time between lanes. Programmed through
- PCS_WRAP_UPHY_TX_CONTROL_2_0 and
PCS_WRAP_UPHY_RX_CONTROL_2_0 registers.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Mi
n
- Def
- Max
- Notes
- TDATAEN-
- STEP
- DATA_EN step time
between lanes. ns 35 ns 500 ns
- Wait time between lanes. Programmed through
- PCS_WRAP_UPHY_TX_CONTROL_3_0 and
PCS_WRAP_UPHY_RX_CONTROL_3_0 registers.
- Rate Controls
The lanes have several controls that are used to configure the lane for operation at each target speed including: the serial interface speed the width of the parallel interface used to transfer data between the pad the core logic, and other electrical settings
- The PLL generates a common clock and the “TX_RATE_ID” signals are used to select the lane
configuration for the desired serial frequency of operation. The following two registers per MGBE port are used for this operation. CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0/1/2/3_CLK_CTRL_0.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO; Divide by [N+1]: Divider ratio selection
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0/1/2/3_CLK_CTRL_0.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_ENABLE
##### 10.8.3.4.4 Electrical Idle
- Overview
The electrical idle state is used as part of all power management events to permit the lanes to achieve lower power states without disrupting the common-mode values held by the AC coupling capacitors. Whenever Tx decides to enter electrical idle, it must first send the appropriate sequence to indicate entry, followed by a min idle period. Once an exit is desired, ALERT symbols must precede the differential data to guarantee exit at the Rx side.
- Generation
The idle bus status is used to maintain the transmitter output common-mode (zero-differential) during low-power interface states. The transmit data enable (TX_DATA_EN) pin of each port is used to control the state (0: Idle, 1: Normal operation) of the transmitter outputs. Before entering electrical idle, the transmitter should send the appropriate sequence to prepare the receiver on the other side. When exiting electrical idle, the transmitter should send the ALERT

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description to help the receiver on the other side detect an electrical idle exit event. Expected value of TTX-EN- IDLE and TTX-EN-DIFF is 2-3 TX_CLK cycle.
**Figure 10.77 Transmitter Electrical Idle**
- Detection
The receiver uses its electrical idle detector to sense the envelope amplitude information of the input data: data (differential) and idle (zero-differential). The detector will not sense any frequency information regarding the incoming pattern.
- Table 10.41 LFPS: Receiver pins
- AUX_RX_IDDQ
- AUX_RX_IDLE_EN
- AUX_RX_IDLE_STATUS (I)
- Description
X (0)
- Disabled (I=1)
- Disabled
- Disabled (I=1)
- Disabled
I:0 = Differential data I:1 = Electrical idle
- High frequency (HF) detection
The primary function of the idle detector is to detect electrical idle exit events by observing the negative edge of the AUX_RX_IDLE_STATUS while the link was in electrical idle. To avoid false triggering an exit, the logic should wait a time of TRX-DIFF-IDLE after the end of receiving data to guarantee that the link has fully achieved electrical idle. The ALERT symbols are only guaranteed to trigger an electrical idle exit condition.
**Figure 10.78 Idle Detection diagram**

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Table 10.42 Electrical Idle: Timing
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Min
- Max
- TRX-DIFF-IDLE
- Wait time before looking for an electrical idle event
after reception of EIOS. 16 ns
- TRX-IDLE-DIFF
Idle detector delay after receiving differential data. ~2 ns
##### 10.8.3.4.5 Functional Details
- Transmitter
At the input of the transmitter, a two stage FIFO is used to provide phase synchronization between the internal and core clock domains. The interface is automatically synchronized whenever the transmitter comes out from a sleep event as indicated by TX_SLEEP signal. The transmitter also provides a manual control, TX_SYNC, which can be used for other scenarios where the interface is disturbed (for example, rate/divider changes) or for debugging purposes. For speed considerations, the transmitter performs an intermediate 20/16 to 10/8 conversion internally before actual serialization in order to reduce the shift register loading. The 10/8-bit data result is then converted into a serial stream and shifted into a differential driver that interfaces with an external transmission line.
**Figure 10.79 Functional: Transmitter Interface**

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description Power state requirements:
- IDDQ=0, SLEEP=00, TX_BYP_EN=0
- Table 10.43 Functional: Transmitter pins
- Name
- Dir
- Description
- TX_DATA_EN
I Transmitter data enable, used to control electrical idle state.
- TX_DATA[15:0]
I
- Transmitter byte data
- TX_CLK
I
- Transmitter byte clock; (Link/16) MHz when active
The TX_DATA_EN signal determines the transition between differential data and electrical idle. The enable signal is pipelined along with normal data to control accurately which symbols are transmitted. Due to datapath, there is some delay before TXP/N reflects status.
**Figure 10.80 Functional: Transmitter Electrical Idle**
- Receiver
The receiver uses a differential input buffer with 50ohm input termination to interface with the external transmission line. The input stage amplifies the input data to an appropriate level with the use of an equalizer, if needed, in order to compensate for frequency losses. The data is then presented to a CDR (Clock Data Recovery) block to recover the embedded serial clock and retime the data with it. Afterwards, the serial stream is converted into 10-bit parallel data which if sent to the core along with a source-synchronous clock.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.81 PHY Receiver Interface**
Power state requirements:
- IDDQ=0, SLEEP=00
- Table 10.44 Functional: Receiver Pins
- Name
- Dir
- Description
- RX_DATA_EN
I Receiver data enable (off a static data sent to CDR).
- RX_CDR_EN
I Receiver CDR enable (off a CDR does not track incoming data).
- RX_DATA[15:0]
I Receiver byte data.
- RX_CLK
I Receiver byte clock-(Link/16) MHz when active. The RX_DATA_EN signal is used to control whether the receiver looks at the incoming data. This control is important during transition between differential data and electrical idle to make sure that the receiver only looks at the appropriate data. The enable signal is handled asynchronously so the change is effectively instantaneous.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.82 Receiver CDR Timing**
- Table 10.45 Functional: Receiver CDR Timing
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Min
- Max
- Notes
- Transition time between nontracking
and tracking states, for example,
- CDR_LOCK

