# 20 :0

- RW
0x0 QW: idleSlopeCredit, Quantum or Weights. - idleSlopeCredit -- When Audio
- Video Bridging feature is enabled, this field contains the idleSlopeCredit
value required for the credit-based shaper algorithm for Queue 1. This is the rate of change of credit in bits per cycle (3.2 ns for 2.5/10 Gbps; 8 ns for 1000 Mbps) when the credit is increasing. The software should program this field with computed credit in bits per cycle scaled by 1024.
- The maximum value is portTransmitRate, that is, 0x2000 in 1000/2500
- Mbps mode and 0x8000 in 10 Gbps mode. Bits[20:16] must be written to
zero. - Quantum -- When the TSA is set to ETS and ETSALG is set to DWRR algorithm for Traffic Class 1 traffic, this field contains the quantum value in bytes to be added to credit during every queue scanning cycle. The maximum value is 0x1312D0 bytes. - Weights -- When TSA is set to ETS and ETSALG is set to WFQ algorithm for Traffic Class1 traffic, this field contains the weight for this queue. The maximum value is 0x3FFF where weight of 0 indicates 100% bandwidth. Bits [20:14] must be written to zero. -- When TSA is set to ETS and ETSALG is set to WRR algorithm for
- Traffic Class 1 traffic, this field contains the weight for this queue. The
maximum value is 0x64. Bits[20:7] must be written to zero. This field is reserved and RO when the number of traffic classes selected is less than two. This field is reserved in corresponding Queues 8-15 register.
- MGBE_DWCXG_MTL_TCQ0_MTL_RXQ0_OPERATION_MODE_0
The Queue 0 Receive Operation Mode register establishes the Receive queue operating modes and command.
- Offset: 0x1140
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

