# 20 :16

- RW
0x1 RD_OSR_LMT:
- AXI Maximum Read Outstanding Request Limit This value limits the
maximum outstanding request on the AXI read interface. Maximum outstanding requests = RD_OSR_LMT + 1 Note: - Bit 18 is reserved if parameter DWC_ETHER_QOS_AXI_MAX_RD_REQ = 4 - Bit 19 is reserved if parameter DWC_ETHER_QOS_AXI_MAX_RD_REQ!= 16
- RO
0x0 Reserved_RB: Reserved.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_MB: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 ONEKBBE: 1 KB Boundary Crossing Enable for the EQOS-AXI Master - 1: The burst transfers performed by the EQOS-AXI master do not cross 1
- KB boundary. - 0: The burst transfers performed by the EQOS-AXI
master do not cross 4 KB boundary.
- RW
0x0 AAL:
- Address-Aligned Beats When this bit is set to 1, the EQOS-AXI or
- EQOS-AHB master performs address-aligned burst transfers on
- Read and Write channels. When this bit is set to 0, the EQOS-AXI or
- EQOS-AHB master performs burst transfers on Read and Write
channels without aligning to address boundaries.
- RW
0x0 EAME:
- Enhanced Address Mode Enable. When set to - 1: the DMA master
enables the enhanced address mode (40-bit or 48-bit addressing mode). In this mode, the DMA engine uses either the 40- or 48-bit address, depending on the configuration. - 0: the DMA master enables the normal address mode (32-bit).
- RW
0x0 AALE:
- Automatic AXI LPI enable When set to 1, enables the AXI master to
enter into LPI state when there is no activity in the DWC_ether_qos for number of system clock cycles programmed in the LPIEI field of AXI_LPI_Entry_Interval register. 9:8
- RO
0x0 Reserved_9_8: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 BLEN256:
- AXI Burst Length 256 When set to - 1: the EQOS-AXI master can
select a burst length of 256 on the AXI interface. - 0: the EQOS-AXI master cannot select a burst length of greater than 128 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN128:
- AXI Burst Length 128 When set to - 1: the EQOS-AXI master can
select a burst length of 128 on the AXI interface. - 0: the EQOS-AXI master cannot select a burst length of greater than 64 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN64:
- AXI Burst Length 64 When set to - 1: the EQOS-AXI master can
select a burst length of 64 on the AXI interface. - 0: the EQOS-AXI master cannot select a burst length of greater than 32 on the AXI interface.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 BLEN32:
- AXI Burst Length 32 When set to - 1: the EQOS-AXI master can
select a burst length of 32 on the AXI interface. - 0: the EQOS-AXI master cannot select a burst length of greater than 16 on the AXI interface.
- RW
0x0 BLEN16:
- AXI Burst Length 16 When this bit is set to 1 or the FB bit is set to

