# 20 :18

- RW
0x0 DSL:
- Descriptor Skip Length. This bit specifies the Word, Dword, or Lword
number (depending on the 32-bit, 64-bit, or 128-bit bus) to skip between two descriptors. The address skipping starts from the end of the current descriptor to the start of the next descriptor. When the DSL value is equal to zero, the DMA takes the descriptor list as contiguous.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_17: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 PBLx8: 8xPBL mode. When this bit is set, the PBL value programmed in Bits[21:16] in DMA_CH7_Tx_Control is multiplied eight times.
- Therefore, the DMA transfers the data in 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, and 256
beats depending on the PBL value. 15:14
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15_14: Reserved. 13:0
- RW
0x0 MSS:
- Maximum Segment Size. This field specifies the maximum segment
size that must be used while segmenting the Transmit packet. This field is valid only if the TSE bit of DMA_CH7_Tx_Control register is set.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_CH7_DMA_CH7_TX_CONTROL_0
- The DMA Channel7 Transmit Control register controls the Tx features such as PBL, TCP
segmentation, and Tx Channel weights.
- Offset: 0x3484
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 Reserved_31: Reserved. 30:29
- RW
0x0 TFSEL:
- TBS Fetch Time Select. Select bits for one of the four DMA_TBS_CTRL
register fields (FTOS,FGSN,FTOV) for the channel. Note: If Configured
- Transmit DMA channels are less or equal to 4 then this field is reserved
and one to one DMA_TBS_CTRL(#i) register mapping is used for each
- Channel. Example: DMA_TBS_CTRL0 is used for Channel 0,
DMA_TBS_CTRL1 is used for Channel 1, and so on.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 3
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 EDSE:
- Enhanced Descriptor Enable. When this bit is set, the corresponding
channel uses enhanced Descriptors that are 32 Bytes for both Normal and
- Context Descriptors. When reset, the corresponding channel uses the
descriptors that are 16 Bytes. 27:24
- RW
0x0 TQOS:
- Transmit QOS. This field is used to drive arqos_m_o[3:0] or
awqos_m_o[3:0] output signals for all transactions of DMA Tx Channel7. 23:22
- RO
0x0 Reserved_23_22: Reserved. 21:16
- RW
0x0 TxPBL:
- Transmit Programmable Burst Length. These bits indicate the maximum
number of beats to be transferred in one DMA data transfer. This is the maximum value that is used in a single block Read or Write. The DMA always attempts to burst as specified in PBL each time it starts a burst transfer on the application bus. You can program PBL with any of the following values: 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, or 32. Any other value results in undefined behavior. To transfer more than 32 beats, perform the following steps: - Set the PBLx8 mode in DMA_CH7_Control register. - Set the PBL. Note-1:
- This PBL is for the internal DMA engine. The AXI Interface block can split
this PBL requests from DMA engine into multiple AXI requests based on the programmed values in DMA_SysBus_Mode register. Note-2: The maximum limit is equal to half of the Tx Queue depth (Queue Depth =
- Queue Size / Datawidth)
- RO
0x0 Reserved_IPBL: Reserved. 14:13
- RO
0x0 Reserved_14_13: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 TSE:
- TCP Segmentation Enabled. When this bit is set, the DMA performs the
- TCP segmentation for packets in Channel 7. The TCP segmentation is
done only for those packets for which the TSE bit (TDES0[19]) is set in the Tx Normal descriptor. 11:5
- RO
0x0 Reserved_11_5: Reserved.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_OSP: Reserved. 3:1
- RO
0x0 Reserved_3_1: Reserved.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 3
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 ST:
- Start or Stop Transmission Command. When this bit is set, transmission is
placed in the Running state. The DMA checks the Transmit list at the current position for a packet to be transmitted. The DMA tries to acquire descriptor from either of the following positions: - The current position in the list This is the base address of the Transmit list set by the
- DMA_CH7_TxDesc_List_LAddress register. - The position at which the
transmission was previously stopped If the DMA does not own the current descriptor, the transmission enters the Suspended state and the TBU bit of the DMA_CH7_Status register is set. The Start Transmission command is effective only when the transmission is stopped. If the command is issued before setting the DMA_CH7_TxDesc_List_LAddress register, the
- DMA behavior is unpredictable. When this bit is reset, the transmission
process is placed in the Stopped state after completing the transmission of the current packet. The Next Descriptor position in the Transmit list is saved, and it becomes the current position when the transmission is restarted. To change the list address, program
- DMA_CH7_TxDesc_List_Address register with a new value when this bit is
reset. The new value is considered when this bit is set again. The stop transmission command is effective only when the transmission of the current packet is complete or the transmission is in the Suspended state.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_CH7_DMA_CH7_RX_CONTROL_0
The DMA Channel7 Receive Control register controls the Rx features such as PBL, buffer size, and extended status.
- Offset: 0x3488
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 RPF:
- Rx DMA Channel7 Packet Flush. When this bit is set to 1, then
- DWC_xgmac automatically flushes the packet from the Rx Queues
destined to this DMA Rx Channel, when it is stopped. When this bit remains set and the DMA is re-started by the software driver the packets residing in the Rx Queues that were received when the DMA is stopped, still gets flushed out. The packets received by the MAC only after the DMA is re-started is routed to the RxDMA. The flushing is done on the Read side of the Rx Queue. When this bit is set to 0, DWC_xgmac does not flush the packet in the Rx Queue destined to this RxDMA Channel when it is
- STOP state. This might cause head-of-line blocking in the corresponding
RxQueue. 30:28
- RO
0x0 Reserved_30_28: Reserved. 27:24
- RW
0x0 RQOS:
- Receive QOS. This field is used to drive arqos_m_o[3:0] or awqos_m_o[3:0]
output signals for all transactions of DMA Rx Channel7.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 3
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

