# 20 'h0

- Minimum value to truncate input
data to.
- ATOMP
The atom packer serves to align pixel packets and build memory requests to be emitted to the MC. With the responsibility of building memory requests comes the responsibility of holding memory state. ATOMP controls the current memory output address for a channel, controls the stride of lines (or restarts), and determines which atoms require write acknowledgments, generates notifications on returned write acknowledgments.
- ATOMP's basic mechanism of operation is the management of atom buffers, in which it
accumulates data before submitting each to the output FIFO. ATOMP works on a byte-level; from the stage up the pipeline, ATOMP receives a byte enable, and a data packet. Additionally, ATOMP manages the logic to perform the atom inversion and count appending specified by the DPCM definition.
- Input Format from PIXFMT
PIXFMT's output format is described preceding, but the mechanics of how ATOMP handles it is worth noting. A sample implementation of a packet from PIXFMT contains the following signals: a channel number

- Video Input (VI)
an input stream ID 32 bytes (256 bits) of data, with a validity assertion signal per byte a mode selection signal for non-planar mode, semi-planar mode, full planar mode, or embedded data and a frame status signal, with {beginning,end} of {frame,line} signals. (Note that the EOF signals correspond to CHANSEL-generated EOF signals, not to NVCSI FE signals.) Embedded data is sent to a different base address than the frame that it came in with, though for the purposes of surface numbers to OFIF it is included in surface 0. The frame status signals control an internal frame number increment inside ATOMP (for sending line-complete signals) and controls line-flush and write-ack generation logic.
- Heterogeneous Channels
The capabilities associated with each channel are as shown below. For software that wishes to discover the capabilities of each channel, they can be probed at run time by reading the VI_ATOMP_CHANNEL_SUPPORT registers.
- Table 7.29 ATOMP Heterogeneous Channel Configuration
- Channels
- Bayer / YUV packed / Y-only
- Planar
- Semi-planar
- PDAF

