## 20.5 or 21.
For divisors of 20.5, 21 baud frequencies that can be achieved are (38.4/20.5) = 1.873 MHz and (38.4/21) = 1.8285 MHz, respectively. Based on the error %, the nearest baud rate that can be achieved is 1.8285 MHz For divisor of 21, value to be programmed in [15:0] is 0x28, [31:29] = 0x7 The following table summarizes the divisor to achieve 115200 baud rates with different source frequencies. Value of divisor (DR) = N/ 2+1 UART[i-J] CLK_DIVISOR (N) Osc Clk Frequency (M) For baud rate 115200, divisor needed D = (M *1000*1000) / (115200
- 16)
6.510 6.5 11 (=0xb) 7.053 7.0 12 (=0xc) 19.2 10.417 10.5 19 (=0x13) 14.106 14.0 26 (=0x1a) 38.4 20.833 21.0 40 (=0x28)

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART Value of divisor (DR) = N/ 2+1 UART[i-J] CLK_DIVISOR (N) Osc Clk Frequency (M) For baud rate 115200, divisor needed D = (M *1000*1000) / (115200
- 16)
26.042 26.0 50 (=0x32)
### 10.13.2 Programming Guidelines
#### 10.13.2.1 Initial Sequence (Clock, Reset, and Pinmux Programming)
Reset the controller by programming CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_UART[I-J] _0_SWR_UART[I-J]_ST to 0x1. Program the clock source and clock divider to achieve the required frequency. Enable the clock to UART by programming CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_UART[I-J] _0 Program the pinmux settings to select the appropriate UART. Remove the controller from reset by programming CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_UART[I- J] _CLR_0 to 0x1. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
#### 10.13.2.2 Basic Guideline for Tx
Configure the SBSA_UARTLCH_0 and SBSA_UARTCR_0 registers according to the use case. Enable UART after configuring the SBSA_UARTLCH_0 and SBSA_UARTCR_0 registers. Write the data into SBSA_UARTDR_0 register if: 1. 2. 3. FIFO MODE DMA Write Data 0 (Non- FIFO) 0 (Non- DMA) Write data to SBSA_UARTDR_0 once TX INTERRUPT is received or UARTDR is empty (indicated in UARTFR register) 1 (FIFO) 0 (Non- DMA) Write the 8-bit FIFO data to SBSA_UARTDR_0 once TX INTERRUPT is received 1 (FIFO) 1 (DMA) Set the trigger level in SBSA_UARTIFLS_0 register and configure the same the burst size equal to trigger level in DMA IP for data transfer. To write the data into Tx FIFO DMA Tx request is used which is generated by DMA flow control Check for interrupts (as mentioned in the sequences below) for triggering next transaction depending on FIFO/NON_FIFO DMA/NON-DMA modes Disable UART according to the sequence of steps mentioned in each of above combinations 4. 5.
#### 10.13.2.3 Basic Guidelines for Rx
Configure the SBSA_UARTLCH_0 and SBSA_UARTCR_0 registers according to the use case 1.

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART Enable UART after configuring the SBSA_UARTLCH_0 and SBSA_UARTCR_0 registers. Read the data into SBSA_UARTDR_0 register if: 2. 3. FIFO MODE DMA Read Data 0 (Non- FIFO) X Read data from SBSA_UARTDR_0 on checking RX INTERRUPT 1 (FIFO) 0 (Non- DMA) Read data from SBSA_UARTDR_0 on checking RX INTERRUPT 1 (FIFO) 1 (DMA) Set the trigger level in SBSA_UARTIFLS_0 register and configure the same the burst size equal to trigger level in DMA IP for data transfer. To transfer the data DMA Rx request is generated by DMA flow control. 4. Check for interrupts (as mentioned in the sequences below) for triggering next transaction depending on FIFO/NON_FIFO DMA/NON-DMA modes. Disable UART according to the sequence of steps mentioned in each of above combinations. 5.
#### 10.13.2.4 Tx: Non-FIFO Mode Programming
1. Write to SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 register as shown below. a. b. FEN: Set this bit to zero SPS: Sticky parity select (Configure this according to requirement) WLEN: Configure word length (2’b00 -> 5 bits; 2’b01-> 6 bits; 2’b10 -> 7 bits; 2’b11 -> 8 bits) STP2: Configure stop bit length (zero -> 1 stop bit; one -> 2 stop bits) EPS: Configure Even parity Select (zero for ODD parity; one for EVEN parity) PEN: Configure Parity Enable BRK: Configure Send Break c. d. e. f. g. 2. Write to SBSA_UARTCR_0 as per the configuration required. a. b. CTSEn: Clear to send Enable TXE: Configure UART Tx Enable (Set this to one to enable transmission) RXE: Configure UART Rx Enable by setting to zero LBE: Loop back enable (Set to zero, unless loopback is required) SIRLP: SIR low power mode (Must be set to zero) SIREN: SIR enable (Must be set to zero) UARTEN: UART enable (Do not set this bit in this step) c. d. e. f. g. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Set SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 1 UARTEN (UART enable) Write data into SBSA_UARTDR_0[7:0] (one character) Check for UART Busy signal from register SBSA_UARTFR_0[3] (UART BUSY). If SBSA_UARTFR_0[3] =1 (TXFE indicates FIFO is empty), go to STEP 7 Else WAIT

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART a. UART Busy: The BUSY signal goes HIGH as soon as data is written to the transmit FIFO (that is, the FIFO is non-empty) and remains asserted 8. Check for TX INTERRUPT which is indicated by TXRIS = 1 (SBSA_UARTRIS_0[5]) (or) a. b. Check for SBSA_UARTFR_0[7] = 1 (indicates Transmit FIFO is empty TXFE) Clear the interrupt by setting clear in appropriate interrupt clear bit. 9. Repeat the process from step 5 Disabling UARTEN 10. a. b. UARTEN (SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 0) can be disabled in during transmission Wait for UART_BUSY = 0 for entire Tx to get disabled.
#### 10.13.2.5 Tx: FIFO Mode Programming (Non-DMA)
1. Write to SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 register as shown below. a. b. FEN: FIFO ENABLE (set this for FIFO mode) SPS: Sticky parity select (Configure this according to requirement) WLEN: Configure word length (2’b00 -> 5 bits; 2’b01-> 6 bits; 2’b10 -> 7 bits; 2’b11 -> 8 bits) STP2: Configure stop bit length (zero -> 1 stop bit; one -> 2 stop bits) EPS: Configure Even parity Select (zero for ODD parity; one for EVEN parity) PEN: Configure Parity Enable BRK: Configure Send Break c. d. e. f. g. 2. Write to SBSA_UARTCR_0 as per the configuration required. a. b. CTSEn: Clear to send Enable TXE: Configure UART Tx Enable RXE: Configure UART Rx Enable by writing zero LBE: Loop back enable (Set to zero, unless loopback is required) SIRLP: SIR low power mode (Must be set to zero) SIREN: SIR enable (Must be set to zero) UARTEN: UART enable (Do not set this bit in this step) c. d. e. f. g. 3. Write data into SBSA_UARTIFLS_0 to select the interrupt level. [2:0] TXIFLSEL Transmit interrupt FIFO level select. The trigger points for the transmit interrupt are as follows: b000 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 1/8 full b001 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 1/4 full b010 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 1/2 full b011 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 3/4 full b100 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 7/8 full 4. Write data into SBSA_UARTDR_0 one by one to reach the FIFO Trigger/water mark level. For example, if TXIFLSEL b100 trigger level is set for DMA, it means that a total of 28-byte data can be written into the UART by HOST or until the entire FIFO can be filled.

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART a. Wait for UART BUSY to become one to indicate that data is written to FIFO and has become non-empty. 5. 6. Set SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 1 (UARTEN) Wait for Tx INTERRUPT, TXRIS (SBSA_UARTRIS_0[5]), indicating that FIFO data count has come down the water mark level. Write data into SBSA_UARTDR_0 until the FIFO reaches above the water mark level and repeat step 7 and 8. To disable the UART: 7. 8. a. Clear the UARTEN (SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 0) which can be done while Tx in progress and Wait for UART_BUSY = 0 for entire Tx to get disabled. FIFO Flushing (if required) b. i. Configure FEN = 0 (SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0[4]) if TX FIFO data is required to be flushed out. To retain the data, do not change FEN = 1 (SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0[4]) Wait for UART_BUSY = 0 for entire Tx to get disabled. ii.
#### 10.13.2.6 Tx: FIFO Mode Programming (DMA Mode)
1. Write to SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 register as per the configuration required to fields below. a. b. FEN: FIFO ENABLE (set this for FIFO mode) SPS: Sticky parity select (Configure this according to requirement) WLEN: Configure word length (2’b00 -> 5 bits; 2’b01-> 6 bits; 2’b10 -> 7 bits; 2’b11 -> 8 bits) STP2: Configure stop bit length (zero -> 1 stop bit; one -> 2 stop bits) EPS: Configure Even parity Select (zero for ODD parity; one for EVEN parity) PEN: Configure Parity Enable BRK: Configure Send Break c. d. e. f. g. 2. 3. Configure SBSA_UARTDMACR_0 by writing one into the TXDMAE field to enable Tx DMA. Write to SBSA_UARTCR_0 as per the configuration required. a. b. CTSEn: Clear to send Enable TXE: Configure UART Tx Enable RXE: Configure UART Rx Enable by writing zero LBE: Loop back enable (Set to zero, unless loopback is required) SIRLP: SIR low power mode (Must be set to zero) SIREN: SIR enable (Must be set to zero) UARTEN: UART enable (Do not set this bit in this step) c. d. e. f. g. 4. Write data into SBSA_UARTIFLS_0 to select the interrupt level. [2:0] TXIFLSEL Transmit interrupt FIFO level select. The trigger points for the transmit interrupt are as follows: b000 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 1/8 full b001 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 1/4 full b010 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 1/2 full

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART b011 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 3/4 full b100 = Transmit FIFO becomes ≤ 7/8 full 5. Program DMA IP with required configurations for data transfer to/from UART. a. Set the burst size equal to trigger level 6. Set SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 1 (UARTEN) a. DMA flow control is based DMA_tx_req sideband signaling from the UART. 7. To disable: a. b. Disable the DMA first Clear the UARTEN (SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 0) which can be done while Tx in progress and Wait for UART_BUSY = 0 for entire Tx to be disabled. FIFO Flushing c. i. Configure FEN = 0 (SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0[4]) if TX FIFO data is required to be flushed out. If we want to retain the data, do not change FEN = 1 (SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0[4]) Wait for UART_BUSY = 0 for entire Tx to get disabled. ii. Table 10.106 DMA Water Mark Levels for Tx/Rx FIFOs Watermark Level Transmit Receive (number of empty locations) (number of filled locations) 1/8th 1/4th 1/2nd 3/4th 7/8th
#### 10.13.2.7 Rx: Non-FIFO Mode Programming
1. Write to SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 register as per the configuration required to fields below. a. b. FEN: Set this bit to zero SPS: Sticky parity select (Configure this according to requirement) WLEN: Configure word length (2’b00 -> 5 bits; 2’b01-> 6 bits; 2’b10 -> 7 bits; 2’b11 -> 8 bits) STP2: Configure stop bit length (zero -> 1 stop bit; one -> 2 stop bits) EPS: Configure Even parity Select (zero for ODD parity; one for EVEN parity) PEN: Configure Parity Enable BRK: Configure Send Break c. d. e. f. g. 2. Write to SBSA_UARTCR_0 as per the configuration required. a. CTSEn: Clear to send Enable

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART b. RXE: Configure UART Rx Enable by writing one TXE: Configure UART Tx Enable by writing zero LBE: Loop back enable (Set to zero, unless loopback is required) SIRLP: SIR low power mode (Must be set to zero) SIREN: SIR enable (Must be set to zero) UARTEN: UART enable (Do not set this bit in this step) c. d. e. f. g. 3. 4. Set SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 1 UARTEN (UART enable) Check for RX INTERRUPT which is indicated by RXRIS = 1 (SBSA_UARTRIS_0[4]) (or) Check for SBSA_UARTFR_0[7] = 1 (indicates Rx FIFO is non-empty RXFE) Read SBSA_UARTDR_0[7:0] to read the data from UART 5. a. In case of any error interrupts, or if the Read data is associated with any Error flags, as described above under "Error Handling", software needs to take appropriate action. 6. 7. Repeat the process from step 4 To disable the UART: a. b. Clear UARTEN (SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 0) which can be disabled in between transmission. Wait for 1 frame duration depending on baud rate programmed. Keep reading the SBSA_UARTDR_0[7:0] until Rx FIFO empty (sbsa_uartfr_0_rxfe) = zero c.
#### 10.13.2.8 Rx: FIFO Mode Programming (Non-DMA)
1. Write to SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 register as per the configuration required to fields below. a. b. FEN: FIFO ENABLE (set this for FIFO mode) SPS: Sticky parity select (Configure this according to requirement) WLEN: Configure word length (2’b00 -> 5 bits; 2’b01-> 6 bits; 2’b10 -> 7 bits; 2’b11 -> 8 bits) STP2: Configure stop bit length (zero -> 1 stop bit; one -> 2 stop bits) EPS: Configure Even parity Select (zero for ODD parity; one for EVEN parity) PEN: Configure Parity Enable BRK: Configure Send Break c. d. e. f. g. 2. Write to SBSA_UARTCR_0 as per the configuration required. a. b. CTSEn: Clear to send Enable RXE: Configure UART Rx Enable by writing one TXE: Configure UART Tx Enable by writing zero LBE: Loop back enable (Set to zero, unless loopback is required) SIRLP: SIR low power mode (Must be set to zero) SIREN: SIR enable (Must be set to zero) UARTEN: UART enable (Do not set this bit in this step) c. d. e. f. g. 3. Write data into SBSA_UARTIFLS_0 to select the interrupt level. [2:0] RXIFLSEL Receive interrupt FIFO level select. The trigger points for the Rx interrupt are as follows:

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART b000 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 1/8 full b001 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 1/4 full b010 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 1/2 full b011 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 3/4 full b100 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 7/8 full 4. 5. 6. 7. b101-b111 = reserved Set SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 1 UARTEN (UART enable) Check and wait for RX INTERRUPT which is indicated by RXRIS = 1 (SBSA_UARTRIS_0[4]). Read SBSA_UARTDR_0[7:0] to read the data from UART one by one till the complete data (as per trigger level) is read out from Rx FIFO. a. In case of any error interrupts, or if the Read data is associated with any Error flags, as described above under "Error Handling," software needs to take appropriate action. 8. 9. Repeat 5 and 6 To disable the UART: a. b. Clear the UARTEN (SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 0) which can be done while Rx in progress. For disabling normally, i. Wait for the 1 Frame time interval Keep reading the SBSA_UARTDR_0[7:0] until Rx FIFO empty (sbsa_uartfr_0_rxfe) = zero ii. c. For abrupt disabling by FIFO Flushing i. Configure FEN = 0 (SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0[4]) if Rx FIFO data is required to be flushed out. Wait for Rx FIFO empty (sbsa_uartfr_0_rxfe) for entire Rx path to get disabled. ii.
#### 10.13.2.9 Rx: FIFO Mode Programming (DMA Mode)
1. Write to SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 register as per the configuration required to fields below. a. b. FEN: FIFO ENABLE (set this for FIFO mode) SPS: Sticky parity select (Configure this according to requirement) WLEN: Configure word length (2’b00 -> 5 bits; 2’b01-> 6 bits; 2’b10 -> 7 bits; 2’b11 -> 8 bits) STP2: Configure stop bit length (zero -> 1 stop bit; one -> 2 stop bits) EPS: Configure Even parity Select (zero for ODD parity; one for EVEN parity) PEN: Configure Parity Enable BRK: Configure Send Break c. d. e. f. g. 2. 3. Configure SBSA_UARTDMACR_0 by writing one into RXDMAE field to enable RX DMA. Write to SBSA_UARTCR_0 as per the configuration required. a. b. CTSEn: Clear to send Enable RXE: Configure UART Rx Enable by writing one TXE: Configure UART Tx Enable by writing zero LBE: Loop back enable (Set to zero, unless loopback is required) c. d.

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART e. SIRLP: SIR low power mode (Must be set to zero) SIREN: SIR enable (Must be set to zero) UARTEN: UART enable (Do not set this bit in this step) f. g. 4. Write data into SBSA_UARTIFLS_0 to select the interrupt level. [2:0] RXIFLSEL Receive interrupt FIFO level select. The trigger points for the transmit interrupt are as follows: b000 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 1/8 full b001 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 1/4 full b010 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 1/2 full b011 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 3/4 full b100 = Receive FIFO becomes ≥ 7/8 full b101-b111 = reserved 5. 6. Set SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 1 UARTEN (UART enable) Program DMA IP with required configuration for data transfer to/from UART. a. Set the Burst size equal to trigger level 7. Set SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 1 (UARTEN) a. DMA takes care of flow control depending on DMA_rx_req sideband signaling from UART IP and does the transfer accordingly. 8. In case of any error’s interrupts set as described in section Interrupt and Status Generation, or if the Read data is associated with any Error flags, software needs to take appropriate action based on the use case. One of the options is disabling the UART or dropping that character which is in error. To disable the UART: 9. a. b. Clear the UARTEN (SBSA_UARTCR_0[0] = 0) which can be done while Rx in progress. Then i. Wait for the 1 Frame time interval. Continue reading the Rx FIFO as long as threshold number of characters are present. If there is any residual remaining, software needs to either read them in PIO mode or by doing a FIFO flush to make the Rx FIFO empty. ii. c. For FIFO Flushing i. Configure FEN=0 (SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0[4]) if Rx FIFO data is required to be flushed out. Wait for Rx FIFO empty (sbsa_uartfr_0_rxfe) for entire Rx path to get disabled. ii.
#### 10.13.2.10 BREAK Programming (Non-FIFO Mode) in Tx
//Assert sequence 1. 2. 3. To set break, disable the UART (UARTCR_0[0] = 0) SET the break (UARTLCR_H_0[0] = 1) Enable UART (UARTCR_0[0] = 0)

Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART //De-assert sequence Wait for two frames time duration. Disable UARTEN = 0 Wait for UART Busy to become low (UARTFR[3] = 0) Clear BRK (UARTLCR_H_0[0] = 0) Enable UART. Continue transmitting the data 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
#### 10.13.2.11 BREAK Programming by Not Flushing FIFO Data (FIFO mode)
in Tx //Assert sequence To set break, disable the UART (UARTCR_0[0] = 0) SET the break (UARTLCR_H_0[0] = 1) Enable UART (UARTCR_0[0] = 0) 1. 2. 3. //De-assert sequence Wait for two frames time duration. Disable UARTEN = 0 Clear BRK (UARTLCR_H_0[0] = 0) Enable UART. 1. 2. 3. 4.
- *Note: UART_BUSY is always high throughout the sequence of step as we do not flush FIFO unless
there is no data in FIFO
#### 10.13.2.12 BREAK Programming Flushing FIFO Data (FIFO mode) in Tx
//Assert sequence To set break, disable the UART (UARTCR_0[0] = 0) can be done anytime during ongoing transaction Configure FEN=0 (SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0[4]) if Tx FIFO data is required to be flushed out Wait for UART BUSY(UARTFR[3] = 0) to become low 1. 2. 3. UART BUSY: signal indicating the end of current transaction and data non-availability in FIFO). a. SET the break BRK(UARTLCR_H_0[0] = 1) Enable UART (UARTCR_0[0] = 0) 4. 5. //De-assert sequence Wait for two frames Disable UARTEN = 0 1. 2.

SBSA UART Registers 3. 4. 5. Wait for UART Busy to become low (UARTFR[3] = 0) Clear BRK (UARTLCR_H_0[0] = 0) Enable UART. Continue writing data to FIFO
#### 10.13.2.13 Loopback
In loopback mode, serial output (SOUT) from Tx is loop-backed to Rx side serial input (SIN). To configure the Loopback mode, all the programming guidelines are as described above except that the Loopback bit should be set while configuring SBSA_UARTCR_0 register.
### 10.13.3 SBSA UART Registers
SBSA_UARTDR_0 Data Register A write to [7:0] bits acts as Tx Data for transmission and gets written into Tx FIFO of controller. A write to Tx FIFO only happens when UARTCR[TXE] is set to 1. A Read to [7:0] returns the received data from Rx FIFO which is at top of the FIFO; [11:8] is status flags associated to the character read through [7:0] Offset: 0x0 Read/Write: See table below Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000) Bit R/W Reset Description RO 0x0 OE: Overrun Error RO 0x0 BE: Break Error RO 0x0 PE: Parity Error RO 0x0 FE: Framing Error 7:0 RW 0x0 DATA: Transmit/Received Data character

SBSA UART Registers SBSA_UARTRSR_0 UART Receive Status Register/Error Clear Register. A write to this register clears all the four bits Offset: 0x4 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 OE: Overrun Error 0x0 BE: Break Error 0x0 PE: Parity Error 0x0 FE: Framing Error SBSA_UARTFR_0 UART Flag Register 1: indicates that UART is busy in transmitting. This bit remains set until the complete byte, including all the stop bits, has been sent from the shift register. 0: indicates that UART is in IDLE and no data to transmit. Note: UARTFR[2:0] - DCD, DSR, CTS, and UARTFR[8] - RI fields are reserved as these features are not supported Offset: 0x18 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000090 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,1001,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 RI: State of Ring Indicator. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

SBSA UART Registers Bit Reset Description 0x1 TXFE: Transmit FIFO empty. 0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY 0x0 RXFF: Receive FIFO full. 0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL 0x0 TXFF: Transmit FIFO full. 0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL 0x1 RXFE: Receive FIFO empty. 0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY 0x0 BUSY: 0 = NOT_BUSY 1 = BUSY 0x0 DCD: Data carrier detect. This bit is the complement of the UART data carrier detect nUARTDCD, modem status input. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 DSR: Data set ready. This bit is the complement of the UART data set ready, nUARTDSR, modem status input. That is, the bit is 1 when nUARTDSR is LOW. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 CTS: Clear to send. This bit is the complement of the UART clear to send, nUARTCTS, modem status input. That is, the bit is 1 when nUARTCTS is LOW. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE SBSA_UARTILPR_0 IrDA Low-Power Counter Register (NOT USED) Offset: 0x20 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)

SBSA UART Registers Bit Reset Description 7:0 0x0 ILPDVSR: 8-bit low-power divisor value. These bits are cleared to 0 at reset SBSA_UARTIBRD_0 Integer Baud Rate Register Offset: 0x24 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 15:0 0x0 BAUD_DIVINT: The integer baud rate divisor SBSA_UARTFBRD_0 Fractional Baud Rate Register (NOT USED) Offset: 0x28 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000) Bit Reset Description 5:0 0x0 BAUD_DIVFRAC: The fractional baud rate divisor SBSA_UARTLCR_H_0 UART Line Control Register Offset: 0x2c Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

SBSA UART Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 SPS: Sticky Parity Bit (set to allow programming of the DLH, DLM Divisors) 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 6:5 0x0 WLEN: 3 = Word length of 8, 2 = Word length of 7, 1 = Word length of 6, 0 = Word length of 5. 0 = WORD_LENGTH_5 1 = WORD_LENGTH_6 2 = WORD_LENGTH_7 3 = WORD_LENGTH_8 0x0 FEN: This bit is to select FIFO/non-FIFO mode. FIFO mode is disabled by default. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 STP2: 1 = Two stop bits, 0 = One stop bit. 0 = ONE 1 = TWO 0x0 EPS: 0 = Odd parity select, 1 = Even parity select. 0 = ODD 1 = EVEN 0x0 PEN: 0 = Parity Disabled, 1 = Parity Enabled. 0 = NO_PARITY 1 = PARITY 0x0 BRK: If this bit is set to 1, a low-level is continually output on the UARTTXD output, after completing transmission of the current character. For the proper execution of the break command, the software must set this bit for at least two complete frames. For normal use, this bit must be cleared to 0. 0 = NO_BREAK 1 = BREAK SBSA_UARTCR_0 Control Register The RTS and CTS pins are used for hardware handshaking with an external serial device. RTS (Request-To-Send) informs the device that the UART is ready to accept data. CTS (Clear-To-Send) comes from the RTS of the external device and informs us that it is OK to send data. Bits [6:3] of UARTCR are reserved writing '1' into TXE field enables the Tx data writing into Tx FIFO even if UARTEN is not set; Tx data transmission starts from Tx FIFO, when UARTEN is set. In Receive path, both RXE and UARTEN should be set in order to start receiving the data and store in RXFIFO.

SBSA UART Registers Note: bits UARTCR[13:12] - Out2, Out1; UARTCR[10] - DTR; UARTCR[2:1] - SIREN, SIRLP are reserved and are not supported in RTL. Offset: 0x30 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000300 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0011,0xxx,x000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 CTS_EN: 1 = Enable CTS Hardware Flow Control 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RTS_EN: 1 = Enable RTS Hardware Flow Control 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 Out2: This bit is the complement of the UARTOut2 (nUARTOut2) modem status output. For DTE this can be used as Ring Indicator (RI). 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 Out1: This bit is the complement of the UARTOut1 (nUARTOut1) modem status output. For DTE this can be used as Data Carrier Detect (DCD). 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RTS: RTS = 1, Request to send the data. 0 = RTS_LOW 1 = RTS_HIGH 0x0 DTR: DTR = 1, Data is ready to transmit. 0 = DTR_LOW 0 = DTR_HIGH 0x1 RXE: 1 = Receive Enable. 0 = RX_DISABLE 1 = RX_ENABLE 0x1 TXE: 1 = Transmit Enable. 0 = TX_DISABLE 1 = TX_ENABLE 0x0 LBE: Disable Loopback by default. 0 = LPBCK_DISABLE 1 = LPBCK_ENABLE

SBSA UART Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 SIRLP: SIR low-power IrDA mode is set. 0 = NOT_SIRLOWP 1 = SIRLOWP 0x0 SIREN: 1 = IrDA SIR ENDEC is enabled; 0 = Regular TXD/RXD data transmission. 0 = SIR_DISABLE 1 = SIR_ENABLE 0x0 UARTEN: 0 = UART is disabled. If the UART is disabled in the middle of transmission or reception, it completes the current character before stopping. 1 = the UART is enabled. Data transmission and reception occurs for either UART signals or SIR signals depending on the setting of the SIREN bit. 0 = UART_DISABLE 1 = UART_ENABLE SBSA_UARTIFLS_0 Interrupt FIFO Level Select Register Transmit interrupt FIFO level select. Tx interrupt is raised when FIFO data count comes down to programmable threshold/trigger level; for example of 000, Tx interrupt is asserted when Tx FIFO data count comes down to four locations (1/8 full). Note: The transmit interrupt is based on a transition through a level, rather than on the level itself. b000 = Transmit FIFO becomes <= 1/8 full b001 = Transmit FIFO becomes <= 1/4 full b010 = Transmit FIFO becomes <= 1/2 full b011 = Transmit FIFO becomes <= 3/4 full b100 = Transmit FIFO becomes <= 7/8 full b101-b111 = reserved Receive interrupt FIFO level select. The trigger points for the receive interrupt are as follows: b000 = Receive FIFO becomes >= 1/8 full b001 = Receive FIFO becomes >= 1/4 full b010 = Receive FIFO becomes >= 1/2 full b011 = Receive FIFO becomes >= 3/4 full b100 = Receive FIFO becomes >= 7/8 full b101-b111 = reserved Offset: 0x34 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N

SBSA UART Registers SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000012 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx01,0010) Bit Reset Description 5:3 0x2 RXIFLSEL 2:0 0x2 TXIFLSEL SBSA_UARTIMSC_0 Interrupt Mask Set/Clear Writing 1 into a particular field will enable respective interrupt to get asserted to LIC. Writing 0 into a particular field will disable/mask respective interrupt to LIC Offset: 0x38 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 OEIM: Overrun error interrupt mask. 0 = OVR_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = OVR_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 BEIM: Break error interrupt mask. 0 = BRK_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = BRK_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 PEIM: Parity error interrupt mask. 0 = PTY_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = PTY_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 FEIM: Framing error interrupt mask. 0 = FRM_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = FRM_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 RTIM: Receive timeout interrupt mask. 0 = TIMEOUT_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = TIMEOUT_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 TXIM: Transmit interrupt mask. 0 = TX_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = TX_INTR_ENABLED

SBSA UART Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 RXIM: Receive interrupt mask. 0 = RX_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = RX_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 DSRMIM: nUARTDSR modem interrupt mask. 0 = DSR_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = DSR_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 DCDMIM: nUARTDCD modem interrupt mask. 0 = DCD_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = DCD_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 CTSMIM: nUARTCTS modem interrupt mask. 0 = CTS_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = CTS_INTR_ENABLED 0x0 RIMIM: nUARTRI modem interrupt mask. 0 = RI_INTR_DISABLED_MASKED 1 = RI_INTR_ENABLED SBSA_UARTRIS_0 Raw Interrupt Status Register 1 = indicates that respective interrupt is set. 0 = indicates there is no interrupt. Note: The Raw Interrupt Status (RIS) register is not impacted/ changed irrespective of value of UARTIMSC Offset: 0x3c Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 OERIS: Overrun error interrupt 0 = NO_OVR_ERR 1 = OVR_ERR 0x0 BERIS: Break error interrupt 0 = NO_BRK_ERR 1 = BRK_ERR 0x0 PERIS: Parity error interrupt 0 = NO_PTY_ERR 1 = PTY_ERR

SBSA UART Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 FERIS: Framing error interrupt 0 = NO_FRM_ERR 1 = FRM_ERR 0x0 RTRIS: Receive timeout interrupt 0 = NO_TIMEOUT 1 = TIMEOUT 0x0 TXRIS: Transmit interrupt 0 = NO_TX_INTR 1 = TX_INTR 0x0 RXRIS: Receive interrupt 0 = NO_RX_INTR 1 = RX_INTR 0x0 DSRRMIS: nUARTDSR modem interrupt 0 = NO_DSR_INTR 1 = DSR_INTR 0x0 DCDRMIS: nUARTDCD modem interrupt 0 = NO_DCD_INTR 1 = DCD_INTR 0x0 CTSRMIS: nUARTCTS modem interrupt 0 = NO_CTS_INTR 1 = CTS_INTR 0x0 RIRMIMS: nUARTRI modem interrupt 0 = NO_RI_INTR 1 = RI_INTR SBSA_UARTMIS_0 Masked Interrupt Status Register 1: indicates that respective interrupt is set/active. 0: indicates there is no interrupt. Note: this register status is updated/changed based on UARTIMSC register configuration Offset: 0x40 Read/Write: RO Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000)

SBSA UART Registers Bit Reset Description 0x0 OEMIS: Overrun error interrupt mask status 0 = OVR_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = OVR_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 BEMIS: Break error interrupt mask status 0 = BRK_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = BRK_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 PEMIS: Parity error interrupt mask status 0 = PTY_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = PTY_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 FEMIS: Framing error interrupt mask status 0 = FRM_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = FRM_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 RTMIS: Receive timeout interrupt mask status 0 = TIMEOUT_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = TIMEOUT_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 TXMIS: Transmit interrupt mask status 0 = TX_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = TX_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 RXMIS: Receive interrupt mask status 0 = RX_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = RX_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 DSRMMIS: nUARTDSR modem interrupt mask status 0 = DSR_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = DSR_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 DCDMMIS: nUARTDCD modem interrupt mask status 0 = DCD_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = DCD_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 CTSMMIS: nUARTCTS modem interrupt mask status 0 = CTS_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = CTS_INTR_ACTIVE 0x0 RIMMIS: nUARTRI modem interrupt mask status 0 = RI_INTR_INACTIVE 1 = RI_INTR_ACTIVE SBSA_UARTICR_0

SBSA UART Registers Interrupt clear Register Writing a 1 into particular field clears respective interrupt in both UARTMIS/UARTRIS and eventual to LIC. Writing a 0 has no effect/impact Offset: 0x44 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 OEIC: Overrun error interrupt clear 0 = NO_OVR_ERR_CLR 1 = OVR_ERR_CLR 0x0 BEIC: Break error interrupt clear 0 = NO_BRK_ERR_CLR 1 = BRK_ERR_CLR 0x0 PEIC: Parity error interrupt clear 0 = NO_PTY_ERR_CLR 1 = PTY_ERR_CLR 0x0 FEIC: Framing error interrupt clear 0 = NO_FRM_ERR_CLR 1 = FRM_ERR_CLR 0x0 RTIC: Receive timeout interrupt clear 0 = NO_TIMEOUT_CLR 1 = TIMEOUT_CLR 0x0 TXIC: Transmit interrupt clear 0 = NO_TX_INTR_CLR 1 = TX_INTR_CLR 0x0 RXIC: Receive interrupt clear 0 = NO_RX_INTR_CLR 1 = RX_INTR_CLR 0x0 DSRMIC: nUARTDSR modem interrupt clear 0 = NO_DSR_INTR_CLR 1 = DSR_INTR_CLR 0x0 DCDMIC: nUARTDCD modem interrupt clear 0 = NO_DCD_INTR_CLR 1 = DCD_INTR_CLR

Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) Bit Reset Description 0x0 CTSMIC: nUARTCTS modem interrupt clear 0 = NO_CTS_INTR_CLR 1 = CTS_INTR_CLR 0x0 RIMIC: nUARTRI modem interrupt clear 0 = NO_RI_INTR_CLR 1 = RI_INTR_CLR SBSA_UARTDMACR_0 DMA Control Register Offset: 0x48 Read/Write: R/W Parity Protection: N Shadow: N SCR Protection: 0 Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000) Bit Reset Description 0x0 DMAONERR: DMA on error. If this bit is set to 1, the DMA receive request outputs 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 TXDMAE: 1 = DMA for the transmit FIFO is enabled 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 RXDMAE: 1 = DMA for the receive FIFO is enabled 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
