# 21 :16

- RO
0x0 RSVDP_16: Reserved for future use.
- RW
0x0 PME_STATUS:
- PME_Status. This bit is set when the function normally generates a
- PME signal. The value of this bit is not affected by the value of the
- PME_En bit. If PME_Support bit 31 of the Power Management
Capabilities register is clear, this bit is permitted to be hardwired to 0b.
- Functions that consume Aux power must preserve the value of this
sticky register when Aux power is available. In such functions, this register value is not modified by Conventional Reset or FLR. 14:13
- RO
0x0 DATA_SCALE:
- Data_Scale. This field indicates the scaling factor to be used when
interpreting the value of the Data field. The value and meaning of this field varies depending on which data value has been selected by the
- Data_Select field. For more details, see 7.5.2.3 section of PCI Express
Base Specification. 12:9
- RO
0x0 DATA_SELECT:
- Data_Select. This 4-bit field is used to select which data is to be
reported through the Data and Data_Scale field. If the Data field is not implemented, this field must be hardwired to 0000b.
- RW
0x0 PME_ENABLE:
- PME_En. - When set, the function is permitted to generate a PME. -
- When clear, the function is not permitted to generate a PME. If
- PME_Support is 1 xxxxb (PME generation from D3cold) or the function
consumes Aux power and Aux power is available this bit is RWS and the bit is not modified by Conventional Reset or FLR. If PME_Support is 0 xxxxb, this field is not sticky (RW). If PME_Support is 0 0000b, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: This register field is sticky. 7:4
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_4: Reserved for future use.
- RW
0x1 NO_SOFT_RST:
- No_Soft_Reset. This bit indicates the state of the function after
writing the PowerState field to transition the function from D3hot to
- D0. - When set, this transition preserves internal function state. The
function is in D0Active and no additional software intervention is required. - When clear, this transition results in undefined internal function state. Regardless of this bit, functions that transition from
- D3hot to D0 by Fundamental Reset will return to D0Uninitialized with
only PME context preserved if PME is supported and enabled. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky.
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_2: Reserved for future use. 1:0
- RW
0x0 POWER_STATE:
- PowerState. This 2-bit field is used both to determine the current
power state of a function and to set the function into a new power state. You can write to this register; however, the read-back value is the actual power state, not the write value. If you attempt to write an unsupported, optional state to this field, the write operation completes normally; however, the data is discarded and no state change occurs.
- Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R/W -
- Dbi: R/W

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- PCIE_X<j>_EP_PF0_MSI_CAP_PCI_MSI_CAP_ID_NEXT_CTRL_REG_0
where <j> = 4, 8. Description:This register holds MSI Capability Header information and controls the MSI behaviour.
- PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_MSI_CAP_PCI_MSI_CAP_ID_NEXT_CTRL_REG_0
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_MSI_CAP_PCI_MSI_CAP_ID_NEXT_CTRL_REG_0
- Offset: 0x50
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x01807005 (0b0000,0001,1000,0000,0111,0000,0000,0101)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

