# 22 :21

- RW
0x0 RXPEIEC:
- ECC Inject Error Control. This field is valid only when Instruction Table
(ACC_IT) is selected in the ACCSEL field. When RXPEIEE bit of this register is set, following errors are inserted based on the value encoded in this field.
- RW
0x0 RXPEIEE:
- ECC Inject Error Enable. This field is valid only when Instruction Table
(ACC_IT) is selected in ACCSEL field. When set, enables the ECC error injection feature. When reset, disables the ECC error injection feature.
- Note: Hardware injects error when this bit is set and software has
directed to read ACCSEL.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_19:
- Reserved
- RW
0x0 CRWEN:
- Continuous Read/Write Mode Enable This field is valid only when
- Instruction Table (ACC_IT) or ACC_RCHLIST is selected in the ACCSEL
field. When this bit set, continuous read/write mode is enabled. This bit is qualifier for CRWSEL. CRWSEL selects either Read or Write continuous mode. In this mode, software has to set ADDR, STARTBUSY once and along with this mode enable. For subsequent write/read operations, it is not required to set ADDR and STARTBUSY. Hardware sets STARTBUSY and increments ADDR for next 32bit write/read data.
- To disable this mode, set this bit to 0. Note: Byte wise Write/Read is not
supported.
- RW
0x0 CRWSEL:
- Continuous Read/Write Mode Select This field is valid only when
Instruction Table (ACC_IT) or ACC_RCHLIST is selected in ACCSEL field.
- When CRWEN is set, CRWSEL is valid. Software can select which
continuous mode to use, either Write or Read.
- RW
0x0 WRRDN:
- Read Write Control When this bit is set to 1, indicates the write
operation is selected for ACCSEL. When this bit is set to 0, indicates the read operation is selected for ACCSEL. 15:10
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15_x:
- Reserved

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

