# 22 :20

- RW
0x0 PCI_MSI_MULTIPLE_MSG_EN:
- Multiple Message Enable. Software writes to this field to indicate the
number of allocated vectors (equal to or less than the number of requested vectors). The number of allocated vectors is aligned to a power of two. If a function requests four vectors (indicated by a
- Multiple Message Capable encoding of 010b), system software can
allocate either four, two, or one vector by writing a 010b, 001b, or 000b to this field, respectively. When MSI is enabled, a function will be allocated at least 1 vector. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. 19:17
- RW
0x0 PCI_MSI_MULTIPLE_MSG_CAP:
- Multiple Message Capable. System software reads this field to
determine the number of requested vectors. The number of requested vectors must be aligned to a power of two (if a function requires three vectors, it requests four by initializing this field to 010b). All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved.
- Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R
(sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 PCI_MSI_ENABLE:
- MSI Enable. - If set and the MSI-X Enable bit in the MSI-X Message
- Control register is clear, the function is permitted to use MSI to
request service and is prohibited from using INTx interrupts. System configuration software sets this bit to enable MSI. A device driver is prohibited from writing this bit to mask a function's service request.
- For more details on control of INTx interrupts, see section 7.5.1.1 of
- PCI Express Base Specification. - If clear, the function is prohibited
from using MSI to request service. 15:8
- RW
0x70 PCI_MSI_CAP_NEXT_OFFSET:
- Next Capability Pointer. This field contains the offset to the next PCI
- Capability structure or 00h if no other items exist in the linked list of
- Capabilities. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: -
Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 7:0
- RO
0x5 PCI_MSI_CAP_ID:
- Capability ID. Indicates the MSI Capability structure. This field returns
a Capability ID of 05h indicating that this is an MSI Capability structure.
- PCIE_X<j>_EP_PF0_MSI_CAP_MSI_CAP_OFF_04H_REG_0
where <j> = 4, 8. Description:This register holds the system specified message address for an MSI transaction.
- PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_MSI_CAP_MSI_CAP_OFF_04H_REG_0
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_MSI_CAP_MSI_CAP_OFF_04H_REG_0
- Offset: 0x54
- Read/Write: See table below

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

