# 23 :17

- RO
0x0 Reserved_23_17: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 RXOVFIS:
- Receive Queue Overflow Interrupt Status This bit indicates that the
- Receive Queue had an overflow while receiving the packet. If a partial
packet is transferred to the application, the overflow status is set in
- RDES3[21]. This bit is cleared when the application writes 1 to this
bit. Access restriction applies. Self-set to 1 on internal event. Setting 1 clears. Setting 0 has no effect. 15:10
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15_10: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 ABPSIE:
- Average Bits Per Slot Interrupt Enable When this bit is set, the MAC
asserts the sbd_intr_o or mci_intr_o interrupt when the average bits per slot status is updated. When this bit is cleared, the interrupt is not asserted for such an event.
- RW
0x0 TXUIE:
- Transmit Queue Underflow Interrupt Enable When this bit is set, the
- Transmit Queue Underflow interrupt is enabled. When this bit is
reset, the Transmit Queue Underflow interrupt is disabled. 7:2
- RO
0x0 Reserved_7_2: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 ABPSIS:
- Average Bits Per Slot Interrupt Status When set, this bit indicates
that the MAC has updated the ABS value. This bit is cleared when the application writes 1 to this bit. Access restriction applies. Self- set to 1 on internal event. Setting 1 clears. Setting 0 has no effect.
- RW
0x0 TXUNFIS:
- Transmit Queue Underflow Interrupt Status This bit indicates that
the Transmit Queue had an underflow while transmitting the packet. Transmission is suspended and an Underflow Error TDES3[2] is set.
- This bit is cleared when the application writes 1 to this bit. Access
restriction applies. Self-set to 1 on internal event. Setting 1 clears. Setting 0 has no effect.
- EQOS_EQOS_MTL_Q1_MTL_RXQ1_OPERATION_MODE_0
The Queue 1 Receive Operation Mode register establishes the Receive queue operating modes and command. The RFA and RFD fields are not backward compatible with the RFA and RFD fields of 4.00a release.
- Offset: 0xd70
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

