# 23 :22

- RO
0x0 Reserved_23_22: Reserved. 21:16
- RW
0x0 RxPBL:
- Receive Programmable Burst Length. These bits indicate the maximum
number of beats to be transferred in one DMA data transfer. This is the maximum value that is used in a single block Read or Write. The DMA always attempts to burst as specified in PBL each time it starts a burst transfer on the application bus. You can program PBL with any of the following values: 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, or 32. Any other value results in undefined behavior. It is recommended to use higher values (8 and higher) for better performance. A value of 0 might result in undefined behavior. To transfer more than 32 beats, perform the following steps: - Set the PBLx8 mode in the DMA_CH9_Control register. - Set the PBL. Note-1: This PBL is for the internal DMA engine. The AXI Interface block can split this PBL requests from DMA engine into multiple AXI requests based on the programmed values in DMA_SysBus_Mode register. Note-2: The maximum limit is equal to half of the Rx Queue Depth (Queue Depth = Queue Size / Datawidth in bytes). For example, in 64-bit configuration, there are 8 bytes per location. So, when Rx Queue Size is 256 bytes, the Rx Queue Depth = 256/8 = 32.
- The RxPBL must be programmed <= total no. of locations in Rx Queue/2,
so RxPBL must be programmed less than 32.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15: Reserved. 14:5
- RW
0x0 RBSZ:
- Receive Buffer size. This field indicates the size of the Rx buffers specified
in bytes allocated by the software to store the packets the Rx DMA transfers to the host memory. The maximum buffer size is limited to 16K bytes. The buffer size is applicable to payload buffers when split headers are enabled. Note-1: The buffer size must be a multiple of 8 or 16 depending on the bus widths (64 or 128 respectively). This is required even if the value of buffer address pointer is not aligned to bus width. If the buffer size is not a multiple of 8 or 16, it might result into undefined behavior. The LSB bits (2:0, or 3:0) for 64-bit or 128-bit bus width are ignored and the DMA internally takes the LSB bits as all-zero. Therefore, these LSB bits are read-only (RO). Therefore, the maximum values that can be programmed into this field are 0x3FF8 (16376) and 0x3FF0 (16368) in 64-bit and 128-bit configurations, respectively. Note-2: It is recommended to program a minimum size of 256 bytes for better performance. 4:1
- RO
0x0 Reserved_x_1: Reserved.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 3
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 SR:
- Start or Stop Receive. - 1: DMA tries to acquire the descriptor from the
- Receive list and processes the incoming packets. The DMA tries to acquire
descriptor from either of the following positions: -- The current position in the list This is the address set by the DMA_CH9_RxDesc_List_LAddress register. -- The position at which the Rx process was previously stopped If the DMA does not own the current descriptor, the reception is suspended and the RBU bit of the DMA_CH9_Status register is set. The Start Receive command is effective only when the reception is stopped. If the command is issued before setting the DMA_CH9_RxDesc_List_LAddress register, the DMA behavior is unpredictable. - 0: Rx DMA operation is stopped after the transfer of the current packet. The next descriptor position in the
- Receive list is saved, and it becomes the current position after the Rx
process is restarted. The Stop Receive command is effective only when the Rx process is in the Running (waiting for Rx packet) or Suspended state. Similarly, Start Receive command is effective only when the Receive process is in the Stopped state. So, read the RD*S fields in the corresponding channel's DMA_CH9_Debug Status register before writing the SR bit (Start or Stop Receive) in DMA_CH9_RX_Control register.
- Additionally, when RSE and AIE bits of DMA_CH9_Interrupt_Enable
register are set, an interrupt is generated when the Rx DMA is stopped.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_CH9_DMA_CH9_SLOT_FUNCTION_CONTROL_STATUS_0
This register contains the control bits for slot function and its status for Transmit path.
- Offset: 0x358c
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

