# 24 :23 0x0

- RestartErrorAction: If a restart action is attempted but fails, indicate which
of 4 actions should be taken. 0x0: do nothing, silently ignore the restart 0x1: immediately jump to expiration level 4 and reload the downcounter. 0x2: immediately jump to expiration level 5 and reload the downcounter. 0x3: immediately request a system power-on-reset When jumping levels, the normal actions configured per level must take place 0 = NOP 1 = JUMP_TO_4 2 = JUMP_TO_5 3 = POR_RESET 22:20 0x7
- ErrorThreshold: The WDT logic asserts an error signal to HSM when
ExpirationLevel >= ErrorThreshold. 0x0
- TscReferenceEnable: Select as timing reference transitions on a configured
TSC bit.

- AON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ChallengeResponseEnable: Enable the Challenge Response mode of
operation. When 1b, the Unlock register operates as a Challenge Response register. 0x0
- WindowedOperationEnable: Enable the windowed mode of operation. When
1b a restart command is rejected when the current expiration level is identified as disallowed in the WindowedRestartDisableMap or the current time is below the window threshold. The rejection is either silent or perform a reset based on RestartErrorAction 0x0
- SystemPOResetEnable: Enable internal full system reset at fifth expiration of
the counter. This reset cannot be intercepted and acts as a Power On Reset 0x0
- SystemDebugResetEnable: Enable system wide reset assertion at fourth
expiration of the counter. This reset can be intercepted by debug logic, e.g., to preserve information 0x0
- RemoteInterruptEnable: Enable normal priority interrupt assertion at third
expiration of the counter, connected to LIC for system wide visibility 0x0
- LocalFIQEnable: Enable high priority interrupt (FIQ) assertion at second
expiration of the counter, connected to local interrupt controller 0x0
- LocalInterruptEnable: Enable normal priority interrupt assertion at first
expiration of the counter, connected to local interrupt controller 11:4 0x0
- Period: Measured in periods of the timer selected as source, this is the reload
value, so 0 is treated as maximum period 3:0 0x0
- TimerSource: The timer source interpretation is dependent on the value of
- TscReferenceEnable: TscReferenceEnable = 0b: timer<TimerSource> is the
timing reference TscReferenceEnable = 1b: a transition of
- TSC[2*TimerSource] is the timing reference
- TKE_AON_WDT0_WDTSR_0
- Watchdog Timer Status Register
- Offset: 0x50004
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- SCR Protection: WDTSCR0_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,x000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- Frozen: 1b indicates that the WDT is frozen because of the assertion of the
global WDT freeze request (when allowed) or because of the assertion of the global timer freeze request 0x0
- ErrorForced: 1b indicates that the error reported to HSM is forced active
for testing purpose 0x0
- StickyEnabled: 1b when the counter is enabled and cannot be disabled, set
by StickyStart command, cleared by reset only.

- AON Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CurrentError: Current error reported to HSM, this is the output after
combining the functional and forced error paths 14:12 0x0
- CurrentExpirationCount: Current count of expiration since last start
operation, cleared by Start command, saturating at 5. 11:4 0x0
- CurrentCount: Current value of the downcounter, reloaded with Period by
Start command. 0x0
- RemoteInterruptStatus: Current status of remote interrupt, cleared by
- Start command
0x0 LocalFIQStatus: Current status of FIQ, cleared by Start command. 0x0
- LocalInterruptStatus: Current status of local interrupt, cleared by Start
command. 0x0
- Enabled: 1b when the counter is active. When Enabled is 1b, the
configuration of the WDT is frozen by silently ignoring write attempts to the configuration registers: WDTCR, WDTSCR and WDTFWCR. Set by Start or StickyStart commands, cleared by Disable when StickyEnabled is 0b.
- TKE_AON_WDT0_WDTCMDR_0
- Watchdog Timer Command Register
- Offset: 0x50008
Read/Write: See table below.
- Parity Protection: N
- SCR Protection: WDTSCR0_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- ForceError: Only working if the Command register is unlocked. 1b sets an internal
flop that is ORED with the functional error signal (based on threshold), 0b clears the bit. The state of the flop is shown in the status register. 0x0
- StickyStart: Qualifies the StartCounter bit, if both bits are 1b, the counter is
enabled in permanent fashion, i.e., it remains enabled until the next reset, and a disable counter operation has no effect. Ignored if StartCounter is 0b 0x0
- DisableCounter: Only working if the unlock register (WDTUR{w}) has been
programmed before with the correct pattern. Writing to the command register always clears the unlock register. If written to 1b, while StartCounter is 0b and the unlock register contains the unlock pattern, the watchdog transitions back to disabled. 0x0
- StartCounter: When written to 1b, enable the counter operation, load the counter
with Period and starts downcounting, resets the expiration count to 0 and clears all status flags. Enabled is always 1b after this. This is also used as Restart. Writing to StartCounter requires unlocking when ChallengeResponseEnable is 1b, and writing to StartCounter is also restricted to windows of time given by WindowedRestartDisableMap when WindowedOperationEnable is 1b.
- TKE_AON_WDT0_WDTUR_0

- AON Registers
- Watchdog Timer Unlock Register
- Offset: 0x5000c
Read/Write: See table below.
- Parity Protection: N
- SCR Protection: WDTSCR0_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)00000
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

