# 27 :26

- RO
0x0 RSVDP_26: Reserved for future use. 25:24
- RO
0x1 PCIE_CAP_CROSSLINK_RESOLUTION:
- Crosslink Resolution. This field indicates the state of the Crosslink
negotiation. It must be implemented if Crosslink Supported is Set and the
- Port supports 16.0 GT/s or higher data rate. It is permitted to be
implemented in all other Ports. If Crosslink Supported is clear, the controller hardwires this field to 01b or 10b. Once a value of 01b or 10b is returned in this field, that value must continue to be returned while the Link is Up.
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_TWO_RETIMERS_PRE_DET:
- Two Retimers Presence Detected. When set to 1b, this bit indicates that
two Retimers were present during the most recent Link negotiation. For more details, see section 4.2.6.3.5.1 of PCI Express Base Specification. This bit is required for Ports that have the Two Retimers Presence Detect
- Supported bit of the Link Capabilities 2 register set to 1b. Ports that have
the Two Retimers Presence Detect Supported bit set to 0b are permitted to hardwire this bit to 0b. For Multi-Function Devices associated with an
- Upstream Port, this bit must be implemented in Function 0 and RsvdZ in all
other Functions. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_RETIMER_PRE_DET:
- Retimer Presence Detected. When set to 1b, this bit indicates that a
- Retimer was present during the most recent Link negotiation. For more
details, see section 4.2.6.3.5.1 of PCI Express Base Specification. This bit is required for Ports that have the Retimer Presence Detect Supported bit of the Link Capabilities 2 register set to 1b. For Ports that have the Retimer
- Presence Detect Supported bit set to 0b, the controller hardwires this bit
to 0b. For Multi-Function Devices associated with an Upstream Port, this bit must be implemented in Function 0 and is RsvdZ in all other Functions. Note: This register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_LINK_EQ_REQ:
- Link Equalization Request 8.0 GT/s. This bit is set by hardware to request
the 8.0 GT/s Link equalization process to be performed on the Link. For more details, see sections 4.2.3 and 4.2.6.4.2 of PCI Express Base
- Specification. For Multi-Function Upstream Port, this bit must be
implemented in Function 0 and RsvdZ in other Functions. For components that only support speeds below 8.0 GT/s, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b.
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_EQ_CPL_P3:
- EEqualization 8.0 GT/s Phase 3 Successful. When set to 1b, this bit
indicates that Phase 3 of the 8.0 GT/s Transmitter Equalization procedure has successfully completed. Details of the Transmitter Equalization process and when this bit needs to be set to 1b is provided in section
##### 4.2.6.4.2 of PCI Express Base Specification. For Multi-Function Upstream
- Port, this bit must be implemented in Function 0 and RsvdZ in other
- Functions. For components that only support speeds below 8.0 GT/s, the
controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_EQ_CPL_P2:
- Equalization 8.0 GT/s Phase 2 Successful. When set to 1b, this bit indicates
that Phase 2 of the 8.0 GT/s Transmitter Equalization procedure has successfully completed. Details of the Transmitter Equalization process and when this bit needs to be set to 1b is provided in section 4.2.6.4.2 of
- PCI Express Base Specification. For Multi-Function Upstream Port, this bit
must be implemented in Function 0 and RsvdZ in other Functions. For components that only support speeds below 8.0 GT/s, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_EQ_CPL_P1:
- Equalization 8.0 GT/s Phase 1 Successful. When set to 1b, this bit indicates
that Phase 1 of the 8.0 GT/s Transmitter Equalization procedure has successfully completed. Details of the Transmitter Equalization process and when this bit needs to be set to 1b is provided in section 4.2.6.4.2 of
- PCI Express Base Specification. For Multi-Function Upstream Port, this bit
must be implemented in Function 0 and RsvdZ in other Functions. For components that only support speeds below 8.0 GT/s, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_EQ_CPL:
- Equalization 8.0 GT/s Complete. When set to 1b, this bit indicates that the
- Transmitter Equalization procedure at the 8.0 GT/s data rate has
completed. Details of the Transmitter Equalization process and when this bit needs to be set to 1b is provided in section 4.2.6.4.2 of PCI Express
- Base Specification. For Multi-Function Upstream Port, this bit must be
implemented in Function 0 and RsvdZ in other Functions. For components that only support speeds below 8.0 GT/s, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RO
0x1 PCIE_CAP_CURR_DEEMPHASIS:
- Current De-emphasis Level. When the Link is operating at 5.0 GT/s speed,
this bit reflects the level of de-emphasis. The value in this bit is undefined when the Link is not operating at 5.0 GT/s speed. Components that support only the 2.5 GT/s speed are permitted to hardwire this bit to 0b.
- For components that support speeds greater than 2.5 GT/s, Multi-Function
- Devices associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in
this field for all Functions of the Port. In M-PCIe mode this register is always 0x0. In C-PCIe mode, its contents are derived by sampling the PIPE.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

