# 27 :20

- RW
0x0 RQS:
- Receive Queue Size This field indicates the size of the allocated Receive
queues in blocks of 256 bytes. The RQS field is read-write only if the number of Rx Queues more than one, the reset value is 0x0 and indicates size of 256 bytes. This means that value of 0x0 = 256 bytes, 0x1 = 512 bytes and so on. So, program RQS [5:0] = 6'b001111 to allocate queue size of 4096 (4K) bytes. In general, the size of the Queue = (RQS+1)*256 bytes. When the number of Rx Queues is one, the field is read-only and the configured RX FIFO size in blocks of 256 bytes is reflected in the reset value. The width of this field depends on the Rx memory size selected in your configuration. For example, if the memory size is 2048, the width of this field is 3 bits: LOG2(2048/256) = LOG2(8) = 3 bits 19:14
- RW
0x0 RFD:
- Threshold for Deactivating Flow Control (in half-duplex and full-duplex
modes) These bits control the threshold (fill-level of Rx queue) at which the flow control is de-asserted after activation: - 0: Full minus 1 KB, that is, FULL 1 KB - 1: Full minus 1.5 KB, that is, FULL 1.5 KB - 2: Full minus 2 KB, that is, FULL 2 KB - 3: Full minus 2.5 KB, that is, FULL 2.5 KB - ... - 62:
- Full minus 32 KB, that is, FULL 32 KB - 63: Full minus 32.5 KB, that is,
- FULL 32.5 KB The de-assertion is effective only after flow control is
asserted. Note: The value must be programmed in such a way to make sure that the threshold is a positive number. When the EHFC is set high, these values are applicable only when the Rx queue size determined by the RQS field of this register, is equal to or greater than 4 KB. For a given queue size, the values ranges between 0 and the encoding for FULL minus (QSIZE - 0.5 KB) and all other values are illegal. Here the term FULL and QSIZE refers to the queue size determined by the RQS field of this register. The width of this field depends on RX FIFO size selected during the configuration. Remaining bits are reserved and read only. 13:8
- RW
0x0 RFA:
- Threshold for Activating Flow Control (in half-duplex and full-duplex
- These bits control the threshold (fill-level of Rx queue) at which the flow
control is activated: For more information on encoding for this field, see RFD.
- RW
0x0 EHFC:
- Enable Hardware Flow Control When this bit is set, the flow control signal
operation, based on the fill-level of Rx queue, is enabled. When reset, the flow control operation is disabled.
- RW
0x0 DIS_TCP_EF:
- Disable Dropping of TCP/IP Checksum Error Packets When this bit is set,
the MAC does not drop the packets which only have the errors detected by the Receive Checksum Offload engine. Such packets have errors only in the encapsulated payload. There are no errors (including FCS error) in the Ethernet packet received by the MAC. When this bit is reset, all error packets are dropped if the FEP bit is reset.
- RW
0x0 RSF:
- Receive Queue Store and Forward When this bit is set, the
- DWC_ether_qos reads a packet from the Rx queue only after the
complete packet has been written to it, ignoring the RTC field of this register. When this bit is reset, the Rx queue operates in the Threshold (cut-through) mode, subject to the threshold specified by the RTC field of this register.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 FEP:
- Forward Error Packets When this bit is reset, the Rx queue drops packets
with error status (CRC error, GMII_ER, watchdog timeout, or overflow).
- However, if the start byte (write) pointer of a packet is already
transferred to the read controller side (in Threshold mode), the packet is not dropped. When this bit is set, all packets except the runt error packets are forwarded to the application or DMA. If the RSF bit is set and the Rx queue overflows when a partial packet is written, the packet is dropped irrespective of the setting of this bit. However, if the RSF bit is reset and the Rx queue overflows when a partial packet is written, a partial packet might be forwarded to the application or DMA.
- RW
0x0 FUP:
- Forward Undersized Good Packets When this bit is set, the Rx queue
forwards the undersized good packets (packets with no error and length less than 64 bytes), including pad-bytes and CRC. When this bit is reset, the Rx queue drops all packets of less than 64 bytes, unless a packet is already transferred because of the lower value of Rx Threshold, for example, RTC = 01.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_2: Reserved. 1:0
- RW
0x0 RTC:
- Receive Queue Threshold Control These bits control the threshold level
of the MTL Rx queue (in bytes): The received packet is transferred to the application or DMA when the packet size within the MTL Rx queue is larger than the threshold. In addition, full packets with length less than the threshold are automatically transferred. This field is valid only when the RSF bit is zero. This field is ignored when the RSF bit is set to 1.
- EQOS_EQOS_MTL_Q7_MTL_RXQ7_MISSED_PACKET_OVERFLOW_CNT_0
- The Queue 7 Missed Packet and Overflow Counter register contains the counter for packets
missed because of Receive queue packet flush and packets discarded because of Receive queue overflow.
- Offset: 0xef4
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

