# 2819 and 2665)

#### 10.8.2.6 Physical Coding Sublayer (PCS) Features
- PCS operates in 10G-BASE-R Mode. It provides an interface between MACsec and UPHY (PMA)
through a Media independent interface.
**Figure 10.68 XPCS Top-Level Diagram**

10G Ethernet Controller
##### 10.8.2.6.1 Transmit Block
The features of the transmit block are: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec
- MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox
Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds.
- Performs 64B/66B encoding. In these 66 bits, 64 bits are data bits and 2 bits are Sync
Header bits.
- Performs optional FEC encoding
- Performs scrambling of 64 data bits of PCS data
The data bits are scrambled before they are passed to UPHY as 32 bits @322.265625 MHz. The UPHY serializes this data at 10.3125 Gbps data rate.
##### 10.8.2.6.2 Receive Block
The features of the receive block are: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC/MACsec
- MII interface of 32 bits@322.265625 MHz towards UPHY with internal Gearbox
- Performs 66-bit block alignment
- Performs optional FEC decoding
- Performs 64B/66B decoding
Carries out BER monitoring and generate pcs_signal_ok status as interface output.
- Performs USXGMII functionality to support 10G, 5G, and 2.5G speeds
- Performs clock compensation between Rx recovered clock and Tx clock
#### 10.8.2.7 UPHY Features
- MGBE is connected to external devices through UPHY module. The connectivity of MGBE
instances to UPHY brick is shown in the following figure.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.69 MGBE Instances to UPHY**

