# 28 :24

- RW
0x0 OWRQ:
- Write Outstanding Requests When set to a value greater than zero,
acts as maximum number of Write outstanding requests that can be serviced per DMA. When Maximum Outstanding Write Burst Requests for each Receive DMA Channel is - 64: Upto Bit 30 is Reserved - 32:
- Upto Bit 29 is Reserved - 16: Upto Bit 28 is Reserved - 8: Upto Bit 27 is
- Reserved - 4: Upto Bit 26 is Reserved - 2: Upto Bit 25 is Reserved
When set to 0, backward compatibility is maintained. 23:18
- RW
0x0 ARBS:
- Alternate Receive Buffer Size Indicates size in bytes for Buffer 1 when
- ARBS is programmed to a non-zero value (when split header feature is
not enabled). When split header feature is enabled, ARBS indicates the buffer size for header data. The maximum alternate buffer is limited to 1016 or 1008-bytes depending on the data bus widths (64-bit or 128-bit respectively). When ARBS=0, Rx Buffer1 and Rx Buffer2 sizes are based on RBSZ field of DMA_CH(#i)_Rx_Control. Width of ARBS field is 7 or 6-bits depending on the data bus widths (64-bit or 128-bit respectively) 17:16
- RO
0x0 Reserved_x_16: Reserved. 15:0
- RW
0x0 RDRL:
- Receive Descriptor Ring Length. This field sets the maximum number
of Rx descriptors in the circular descriptor ring. The maximum number of descriptors is limited to 16384 descriptors. - 0 implies ring length of 1 descriptor. - 0xFFFF implies a ring length of 65536 descriptors.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_CH9_DMA_CH9_INTERRUPT_ENABLE_0
The Channel9 Interrupt Enable register enables the interrupts reported by the Status register.
- Offset: 0x35b8
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

