# 29 :28

- RW
0x0 EIVLS:
- Enable Inner VLAN Tag Stripping on Receive. This field indicates the
stripping operation on inner VLAN Tag in the received packet: - 2'b00:
- Do not strip - 2'b01: Strip if VLAN filter passes - 2'b10: Strip if VLAN
filter fails - 2'b11: Always strip
- RW
0x0 ERIVLT:
- Enable Inner VLAN Tag for VLAN hash filtering. When this bit and the
- EDVLP field are set, the MAC receiver enables hash operation on the
inner VLAN Tag (if present). When this bit is reset, the MAC receiver enables hash operation on the outer VLAN Tag (if present). The
- ERSVLM bit determines which VLAN type is enabled for filtering or
matching.
- RW
0x0 EDVLP:
- Enable Double VLAN Processing. When this bit is set, the MAC enables
processing of up to two VLAN Tags on Tx and Rx (if present). When this bit is reset, the MAC enables processing of up to one VLAN Tag on Tx and Rx (if present).
- RW
0x0 VTHM:
- VLAN Tag Hash Table Match Enable. When this bit is set, the most
significant four bits of CRC of VLAN Tag are used to index the content of the MAC_VLAN_Hash_Table register. A value of 1 in the VLAN Hash
- Table register, corresponding to the index, indicates that the packet
matched the VLAN hash table. When the ETV bit is set, the CRC of the 12-bit VLAN Identifier (VID) is used for comparison. When the ETV bit is reset, the CRC of the 16-bit VLAN tag is used for comparison. When this bit is reset, the VLAN Hash Match operation is not performed.
- RW
0x0 EVLRXS:
- Enable VLAN Tag in Rx status. When this bit is set, MAC provides the
outer VLAN Tag in the Rx status. When this bit is reset, the MAC does not provide the outer VLAN Tag in Rx status.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_23: Reserved. 22:21
- RW
0x0 EVLS:
- Enable VLAN Tag Stripping on Receive. This field indicates the
stripping operation on the outer VLAN Tag in received packet: - 2'b00:
- Do not strip - 2'b01: Strip if VLAN filter passes - 2'b10: Strip if VLAN
filter fails - 2'b11: Always strip
- RW
0x0 DOVLTC:
- Disable VLAN Type Check for VLAN hash filtering. When this bit is set,
the MAC does not check whether the VLAN Tag specified by the
- ERIVLT bit is of type S-VLAN or C-VLAN. When this bit is reset, the
- MAC filters or matches the VLAN Tag specified by the ERIVLT bit only
when VLAN Tag type is similar to the one specified by the ERSVLM bit.
- RW
0x0 ERSVLM:
- Enable Receive S-VLAN Match for VLAN hash filtering. When this bit is
set, the MAC receiver enables filtering or matching for S-VLAN (Type = 0x88A8) packets. When this bit is reset, the MAC receiver enables filtering or matching for C-VLAN (Type = 0x8100) packets. The ERIVLT bit determines the VLAN tag position considered for filtering or matching.
- RW
0x0 ESVL:
- Enable S-VLAN. When this bit is set, the MAC transmitter and receiver
consider the S-VLAN packets (Type = 0x88A8) as valid VLAN tagged packets.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 VTIM:
- VLAN Tag Inverse Match/Result Enable. When this bit is set, this bit
enables the VLAN Tag inverse matching for non-Lookup based filtering. The packets without matching VLAN Tag are marked as matched. And for lookup-based filtering, it inverses actual result.
- When reset, this bit enables the VLAN Tag perfect matching for non-
- Lookup based filtering. The packets with matched VLAN Tag are
marked as matched. And for lookup-based filtering, it uses actual result. Note: for more detail regarding lookup-based filtering inversion, refer its filter status sub-section.
- RW
0x0 ETV:
- Enable 12-Bit VLAN Tag Comparison for VLAN hash filtering. When
this bit is set, a 12-bit VLAN identifier is used for VLAN hash filtering instead of the complete 16-bit VLAN tag. When this bit is reset, all 16 bits of the 15th and 16th bytes of the received VLAN packet are used for VLAN hash filtering. 15:14
- RO
0x0 Reserved_ERIVTL: Reserved. 13:12
- RO
0x0 Reserved_EROVTL: Reserved. 11:7
- RO
0x0 Reserved_11_7: Reserved. 6:2
- RW
0x0 OFS:
- Offset. This field holds the address offset of the MAC VLAN Tag Filter
register which the application is trying to access. The width of the field depends on the number of MAC VLAN Tag registers enabled.
- RW
0x0 CT:
- Command Type. This bit indicates if the current register access is a
read or a write. When set, it indicate a read operation. When reset, it indicates a write operation.
- RW
0x0 OB:
- Operation Busy. This bit is set along with a read or write command for
initiating the indirect access to per VLAN Tag Filter register. The next indirect register access can be initiated only after this bit is reset.
- During a write operation, the bit is reset only after the data has been
written into the Per VLAN Tag register. During a read operation, the data should be read from the MAC_VLAN_Tag_Data register only after this bit is reset.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_VLAN_TAG_DATA_0
This register holds the read/write data for Indirect Access of the Per VLAN Tag registers. During the read access, this field contains valid read data only after the OB bit is reset. During the write access, this field should be valid prior to setting the OB bit in the MAC_VLAN_Tag_Ctrl register.
- Offset: 0x54
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

