# 2 :0 0x0 VEN_MSI_FUNC_NUM: CYA : Must be set to 0. to be used all MSI message being transmitted.

- Refer : APPL_MSI_CTRL_1.SEND_MSI_REQ
- PCIE_RP_APPL_LEGACY_INTX_0
- Offset: 0xb8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0)

- PCIe Root Port
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 SYS_INT: sys_int is intended to generate a message that emulates the legacy PCI
- Interrupts. 0->1 will send ASSERT_INTA. 1->0 will send DEASSERT_INTA
message. 0 = OFF 1 = ON
- PCIE_RP_APPL_DIAG_CTRL_0
- Diagnostic Control Bus
x01: Insert LCRC error by inverting the LSB of LCRC x10: Insert ECRC error by inverting the LSB of ECRC The rising edge of these two signals ([1:0]) enable the core to assert an LCRC or ECRC to the packet that it currently being transferred.
- When LCRC or ECRC error packets are transmitted by the core, the core asserts
diag_status_bus[lcrc_err_asserted] or diag_status_bus[ecrc_err_asserted] to report that the requested action has been completed. This handshake between control and status allows your application to control a specific packet being injected with an CRC or ECRC error. The LCRC and ECRC errors are generated by simply inverting the last bit of the LCRC or ECRC value. 1xx: Select Fast Link Mode. Sets all internal timers to Fast Mode for speeding up simulation purposes. Forces the LTSSM training (link initialization) to use shorter timeouts and to link up faster. The scaling factor is 1024 for all internal timers. Fast Link Mode can also be activated by setting the "Fast Link Mode" bit of the "Port Link Control Register".
- Offset: 0xc0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

