# 3.1.1 Overview

The Memory Subsystem (MSS) provides support for:
- Access to LPDDR5 DRAM attached to the SoC
- Access to on-chip SysRAM
A SyncPoint interface for inter-processor signaling
- Full-speed I/O coherence by routing requests through a scalable coherence fabric
A comprehensive set of safety and security mechanisms. Structurally, the MSS consists of six major components: 1.
- MSS Data Backbone - routes requests from clients to the MSS Hub and responses from MSS
Hub to the clients.
- MSS Hub - receives and arbitrates among client requests, performs System Memory
- Management Unit (SMMU) translation, and sends requests to the Memory Controller Fabric
(MCF). NVLink Hub - provides the connection to the iGPU.
- MCF - performs security checks, feeds I/O coherent requests to the Scalable Coherence
Fabric (SCF), and directs requests to the multiple memory channels. Memory Controller (MC) Channels - contain the row sorter/arbiter and DRAM controllers. DRAM I/O - contains the channel-to-pad fabric, DRAM I/O pads, and PLLs. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
- The NVIDIA® Orin™ MSS is designed to support LPDDR5 DRAM memory with up to a 256-bit bus
width. It handles requests from a wide variety of clients, supporting their bandwidth, latency, quality-of-service needs, and special ordering requirements. MSS supports address translation for clients that use virtual addresses.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
#### 3.1.1.1 Features
Key features include:
- Up to 256-bit wide memory interface supporting LPDDR5 DRAM with sixteen x16 DRAM
channels
- High-bandwidth interface to the integrated NVIDIA Ampere Architecture GPU (NVLink3
- NCISOC interface)
- Full-speed I/O coherence with bypass for Isochronous (ISO) traffic
- Can be configured as 128-bit (east/west or south); or 256-bit (full configuration)

