# 3.1.2 Functional Description

@{Key=3.1.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=#### 3.1.2.1 MSS Data Backbone
Clients connect using an AMBA AXI bus Socket interface to an AXI Client Interface (AXICIF) in the client partition. One or more AXICIFs connect to a Partition Client (PC) Interface, which connects the clients to a Tier Snap Arbiter (TSA) network, which provides a shared wiring path to the client hubs. Clients may directly connect to a client hub as well. The Data Backbone supports requests from 32B to 256B in size.
#### 3.1.2.2 Client Hubs
There are eight client hub instances:
- Four unordered hubs (Hub0/Hub1 and Hub2/Hub3) that get transactions from clients that
require no request ordering.
- One ordered hub (Hub4) that gets transactions from clients that require WAW request
ordering.
- Three Qual Engine (see Memory Qualification Engine below) hubs (Hub5-7) with a
single Qual Engine as client and no TBUs, which allow the Qual Engines in aggregate, to saturate DRAM. 1. 2. 3.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
**Figure 3.2 Client Hub Block Diagram**
- Unordered requests arriving on the TSA chain are connected to either the Hub0/1
pair or the Hub2/3 pair. They are steered to the even or odd hub in the pair using an address-hash- based steering function. The nominal interleave between hubs is 1 KiB. Ordered requests are steered to Hub4 (to the ordered hub).
- The figure below shows the overall hub topology

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
**Figure 3.3 MSS Hub Topology**
Each client hub contains the following significant modules:
- PCFIFO interlock for each client interface
- Bandwidth throttle DDA
- Mem Qual engine
- TBUs with wrapper logic (for SMMU translation–not present in the Qual Engine hubs)
- Hierarchical ring arbiter
- Hub throttling logic
##### 3.1.2.2.1 PCFIFO Interlock
The PCFIFO interlock associated with each client interface provides ordering for low bandwidth ordered clients. When the interlock for a client is enabled, the interlock logic stores the upper address bits down to the channel interleave (which is either 512B or 1KB) and other attributes such as StreamID. When a new client request strides outside a 512B or 1KB (configurable) region or has differences in another tracked attribute the new request is stalled until all outstanding write requests have completed. Since the memory system provides ordering for requests from a client to a 512B or 1KB region, this ensures the clients’ writes are committed in order. For more details and caveats see the section on Transaction Ordering below.
##### 3.1.2.2.2 Bandwidth Throttle DDA
Each client interface is equipped with a DDA that can cap the bandwidth requested by a client. This may be used to prevent certain oversubscription problems.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.2.3 Memory Qualification Engine
The Memory Qualification Engine (Qual Engine, MemQual or MIU) is a distributed synthetic load generator. It supports full DRAM bandwidth (256B per dbbclk) for either reads or writes. Its main purposes are to: 1. Provide a unit that can generate memory qualification request streams at full bandwidth that is easy to set up and use
- Debug memory stability issues
- Initialize ECC regions
- Perform silicon measurement and memory performance testing
- Validate SysRAM performance
- Safety testing (only performed by MIUs with an SMMU)
2. 3. 4. 5. 6. The Qual Engine contains pattern generators for addresses, data, byte enables; and configuration registers to specify stride, accesses per activate, request rate, read-write burst length, etc. It integrity-checks returning read data and reports when errors are detected. It has an address-as- data mode, which can be used for address aliasing checks. The Qual Engine has eight interfaces, each providing:
- Read interface (one read per dbbclk)
- Write data interface (32B per dbbclk)
- Read response interface (64B per dbbclk)
- Write ack response interface (one write ack per dbbclk)
The request interfaces connect to Ring 2 of each of the eight client hubs. Three of the hubs have
- Qual Engine as their only client. Qual Engines on these hubs have no access to SMMU
translation. Each response interface connects to one response chain.
##### 3.1.2.2.4 TBUs with Wrapper Logic
- Translation Buffer Units (TBUs) are the Translation Lookaside Buffers of the Arm SMMU-500
(described below). They cache full translations and perform virtual to physical translation on incoming requests. Wrapper logic converts MSS control flags into ACE-Lite controls supported by Arm and implements overrides for many parameters. A bypass path around the TBUs is provided for clients that use physical addressing.
- Multiple TBU instances are used in each MCHub to support the necessary bandwidth. The non-
ordered hubs have four non-ISO TBUs and some have two ISO TBUs. Requests from a given client are distributed over the appropriate set of TBUs using an address-hash-based steering function. The ordered hub has four TBUs of smaller size. Translation requests that miss at a TBU are sent to its attached TCU in the common hub. TLB invalidations are forwarded to the TBUs from the TCUs.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.2.5 Hierarchical Ring Arbiter
In each client hub, arbitration of requests is done in several “rings.” The outermost ring (Ring 2) arbitrates between NISO and Soft ISO traffic/clients. Ring 1 arbitrates between ISO and real-time clients (together with the Ring 2 output). The Ring 1 output is sent to the TBUs. SMMU outputs (including the bypass path) are arbitrated in Ring 0.5. Outputs of the Ring 0.5 are sent to MCF. Ring 2 and Ring 1 are priority tier snap arbiters that provide bandwidth-guarantees using a Digital Differential Analyzer (DDA) mechanism. They also support dynamic masking of arbiter inputs based on the number of outstanding transactions below.
##### 3.1.2.2.6 Hub Throttling Logic
To prevent hubs from issuing requests that exceed response bandwidth, each client hub has a configurable DDA at its output that can throttle the bandwidth of read requests.
##### 3.1.2.2.7 Common Hub
The Common Hub contains hub logic for which there is only one copy. It contains the following major blocks: 1. 2.
- TCUs and NVCaches
- ECC Scrubber
In addition, it contains common logic, including the timestamp counter, used to generate deadlines for client requests, and the aggregator for SMMU/hub interrupts.
##### 3.1.2.2.8 TCU
Each TCU is backed by an instance of NVCache (or NV$), whose purpose is to reduce page-walking traffic to DRAM. A TCU contains: MacroTLB - which is a large backup TLB that backs up the smaller TLBs in the TBU units. The MacroTLB is configured to the maximum possible size (4096 entries, each storing one PTE). Page Table Walk Cache - which caches partial table walks. Page Walk logic - which walks the stage 1- and stage 2-page table structures as needed.
- Each TCU has input buffering to absorb the maximum of 16 requests outstanding from each
TBU connected, stores them internally, and then does the required walks for the requests after arbitration. Each TCU can have up to 32 requests outstanding to NV$/DRAM. The peak rate for TCU hits is one per four clocks and the peak rate for TCU misses is one per five clocks (assuming a simple last-level PTE miss--if complex page walks are required, the rate can be much lower).

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.2.9 NVCache
NVCache (or NV$) is an auxiliary cache that stores arrays of PTEs or PDEs that are fetched to satisfy TCU miss requests. NV$ lines are 64B, which store eight PTEs or PDEs and provides a form of prefetch, unlike TBU and TCU, which cache and request individual PTEs. NV$ is an out of order cache; it can return hits immediately while prior misses are still outstanding. Misses to DRAM are returned in order to TCU.
##### 3.1.2.2.10 ECC Scrubber
ECC protection requires a way of fixing single-bit errors that can accumulate over time before any of them become unrecoverable multi-bit errors. Errors can occur in any portion of memory, which might otherwise be subject to security restrictions. There is a hardware-scrubber unit to meet these needs. Under software control, the scrubber inserts a write request with byte enables off to a designated address into the pipe. RMW logic in the Memory Controller Channel does a read, which corrects the data, followed by a write of the corrected data plus newly computed ECC bits. Scrubber requests use the direct path to the channels, and not the IO-coherent path through SCF.
#### 3.1.2.3 Arm SMMU-500
The SoC uses Arm SMMU-500 IP blocks (TBU and TCU) encapsulated in NVIDIA-designed wrappers. Refer to the System Memory Management Unit chapter of this document for more details.
- Five Translation Cache Units (TCUs) are located in the Common Hub. They handle translation
requests input from the Translation Buffer Units (TBUs) in the client hubs (the Qual Engine hubs do not support SMMU translation). To improve performance, an additional NVIDIA-designed NVCache (NV$), associated with each TCU, caches the eight PTEs (64B) returned from memory each time a TCU miss goes out to memory. Two TCUs, with associated TBUs and NVCaches, form a logical SMMU, serving non-ISO clients on each of the two unordered hub pairs. A dedicated fifth TCU, with associated TBUs and NVCache, serves ISO clients. It is anticipated that both non-ISO TCUs serving a single hub pair have the context registers programmed identically, but TCUs on different hub pairs and the ISO TCU could support disjoint contexts. Invalidations of TLB and cache entries at TCU, TBU, and NVCache are performed by software using register writes to the respective TCU(s). TCUs in turn send invalidation messages to their attached TBUs and they also send bulk invalidation requests to their respective NVCaches (the entire NV$ is invalidated at any TCU invalidation). Invalidations for non-ISO contexts must only be sent to the non-ISO TCUs. This is to prevent non-
- ISO invalidations from affecting ISO performance. Hardware DVM-based invalidations are not
supported to the SMMU, although DVM is used for inter-CPU-cluster page-table invalidations.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
The TCU configuration is 128 contexts for all TCUs (NISO and ISO). This is the largest SMMU-500 configuration supported. Each of the two pairs of NISO TCUs can be independently programmed.
- Note that NISO TCUs 0 and 1 must be programmed identically and NISO TCUs 2 and 3 must be
programmed identically. NISO TCUs 0, 1 may be programmed differently from NISO TCUs 2, 3, as long as each pair of TCUs serves a disjoint set of clients.
#### 3.1.2.4 NVLink Hub (Connection to the iGPU)
- The Ampere iGPU connects to the memory subsystem using eight NCISOC ports. NCISOC is the
on-chip version of the NVLink protocol used to connect GPUs. Each link provides approximately 35 GB/s of raw bandwidth in each direction and approximately 25 GB/sec achievable bandwidth in each direction. GPU requests may be IO coherent. Requests can be 32B, 64B, 96B, 128B, or 256B. If 256B, there can be no byte enables.
- Each NCISOC port connects to the memory subsystem through one of eight NVLink Hubs. NVLink
Hub contains logic to do the following: Convert from NCISOC protocol to the ACE-Lite format used within the memory subsystem. Provide response buffering for GPU responses. Implement barriers to allow hazard-free updates of the protection table.
##### 3.1.2.4.1 Read-Modify-Write (RMW) Transactions
NCISOC supports a RMW command that may be used to implement coherent platform atomics. The read transaction is initiated by the GPU and is conveyed on the NCISOC request interface (REQ virtual channel, RMW command). The response goes back to the imitating unit (GPU L2), which performs the operation, then issues a TRANS_DONE command that conveys the write data to memory. SCF implements the RMW protocol, which requires locking a cache line until TRANS_DONE is received.
#### 3.1.2.5 MSS Clients
The following clients have memory interface(s) in the SoC and connect to the HUBs (excludes dGPU/iGPU/QualEngine).
- AON-DMA
- AON-R5
- APE-DSP
- APE-DMA
- AXIAP (DFD)
- AZA-HDA
- BPMP-DMA

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- BPMP-R5
- DCE-DMA/DCE-R5
Engine with minimal bandwidth requirements that is configured as SISO.
- DLA
- DLA-Falcon
- EQOS
- ETR (DFD)
- Functional Safety Island (FSI)
- An independent, redundant set of processors with onboard memory that is used as a
monitoring and safety processor working beside other SoC engines without requiring an external functional safety processor. It has its own power rail and clocks to be maximally independent of other SoC components.
- This safety processor must meet strict safety requirements, which requires high fault
coverage internally and, also on the external memory interface. The memory subsystem does not meet these metrics. FSI can therefore operate in two modes:
- Safety mode. This is done when accessing the FSI ASIL-D carveout. Both FSI0 and FSI1
ports are used and CRC values are read/written in addition to data. SMMU is bypassed (using StreamID 0x7f).
- Normal mode. This is done when accessing outside the FSI ASIL-D carveout. Only the FSI0
ports are used. CRC values are not used. SMMU is enabled.
- The FSI ports are normal, low-bandwidth non-ISO clients with no special QoS
requirements. They connect to Ring 2, which allows them to be configured as NISO or SISO.
- GPCDMA
- HOST1X
- HWPM_PMA
HWPM_PMA is the write client for the HWPM (hardware performance monitor) unit.
- ISP
- ISP-Falcon
- MGBE
MGBE are multi-gigabit ethernet clients that are configured as SISO.
- NVDISPLAY
The GPU NVDisplay 4.0 client is used, which makes 128B requests in batches of two. In block linear mode, it uses XBAR_RAW. To avoid changes in MSS Hub logic, a disp2dbb shim splits 128B display requests into a pair of 64B requests with AXI_aruser_user_size == 128B, matching the AXI socket protocol used by other clients. This shim then connects to AXICIF, like other MSS clients.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- NVDISPLAY-NISO
- NVDisplay 4.0 contains an NVDISPLAY-NISO client, which is used for configuring display
header frames. NVDISPLAY-NISO issues reads and writes to the memory system for semaphores, notifiers, and push-buffers. NVDISPLAY-NISO has minimal bandwidth requirements.
- NVDEC
- NVENC
- NVJPG
- OFA-DMA
Optical Flow Accelerator (OFA) is a client that is configured as SISO and used independently of NVENC.
- PCIe
- PSC
- PVA
- PVA-Falcon
- QSPI
QSPI has minimal bandwidth requirements and is configured as SISO.
- RCE-DMA
- RCE-R5
- SCE-DMA
- SCE-R5
- SDMMC
- SE
- TSEC
- UFSC
- VI-Falcon
- VI
- VIC
- XUSB-DMA
- XUSB-HOST
#### 3.1.2.6 MCF
MCF is the internal Memory Controller Fabric. MCF contains four MCF slices plus the crossbars that route requests between client hubs and NVLinkHub to the MCF/SCF slices, and to the channels and other memory destinations (SysRAM and Syncpoint registers).

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
#### 3.1.2.7 SCF
The Scalable Coherence Fabric (SCF) contains coherence logic and the SCF cache, as well as the interface to CCPLEX. SCF is part of the CCPLEX cluster and is coupled with MCF and conveys MSS traffic.
#### 3.1.2.8 SysRAM
- SysRAM is an on-chip RAM managed by software, intended to provide memory for boot, power
management, TrustZone (TZ), and interprocessor communication (IPC). SysRAM is potentially usable by other applications as a fast, low-latency, low-power alternative to DRAM. Boot requires an internal RAM to store data used to initialize the chip before DRAM is available. This RAM needs to be directly accessible by the boot processor (the BPMP) and all boot I/O storage devices (for example, Flash controller or USB controller). The boot I/O device transfers encrypted boot data directly to the internal RAM as one of the first steps during boot. The SysRAM characteristics are: A size of 512 KiB. A low access latency for boot speed. Direct access from the I/O clients to SysRAM. During the initial portion of boot, CCPLEX power management needs a protected region in SysRAM. This area can be freed before the completion of boot. To set up this "pre-boot" aperture, the BPMP initializes one of the GSCs to set up an aperture that allows read/write access to only CCPLEX power management.
- The SoC has many CPU cores and auxiliary processors, which have pair-wise communication
requirements. All IPC communication buffers are in DRAM. Post-boot, SysRAM is exclusively used for the MCE GSC (MCE private code and workspace). SysRAM has its own aperture in physical address space, distinct from the DRAM aperture, and is available to all DRAM memory clients. Initialization is done by a dedicated state machine, which is started by writing to a trigger register. Any accesses that occur before initialization is complete are back-pressured (no SysRAM requests are dropped). Software is responsible for allocating SysRAM for each use case.
##### 3.1.2.8.1 Bandwidth
The maximum SysRAM bandwidth is 32B per SCF clock for each of the two instances, or up to 64.2 GB/s aggregate (SCF clock = EMC clock with a max of 1066 MHz). Most SysRAM clients use a small fraction of the maximum bandwidth so their requirements are easily met. The most important aspect of bandwidth is the interaction of SysRAM and DRAM accesses and the effects on DRAM bandwidth and ISO N% values. If SysRAM is oversubscribed, HOL blocking can occur, limiting DRAM

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
bandwidth. SysRAM bandwidth must be limited to 13 GB/sec or about 10% of DRAM bandwidth to prevent HOL blocking DRAM.
#### 3.1.2.9 SyncPoint Interface
- The SyncPoint Interface or Side Band Shim (SBS) presents a memory-mapped aperture to MSS
clients, converting reads and writes to this aperture to syncpoint operations at Host1x. The SyncPoint interface converts read requests to SyncPoint reads and write requests to SyncPoint INCR operations at Host1x. For SyncPoint reads of any size, Host1x returns a 32b read response of SyncPoint value. MSS replicates these 32b to the width of the read response and returns the replicated value back to the client. For writes to the SyncPoint aperture, the data payload of the request does not matter, and is not passed from MSS logic to Host1x. There are no restrictions on the size of reads or write requests. Any sized read or write request to the aperture results in a request to Host1x. SyncPoint writes with zero byte enables are ignored. Each of the 1K SyncPoints has a 64 KiB address range assigned to it in the SyncPoint aperture, so that each may be controlled by a 64 KiB hypervisor page-table entry. The SyncPoint aperture is 64MB long and starts at a 64MB aligned base address. In other words, PA[25:16] of the address is used as the SyncPoint index.
- The SyncPoint interface does not have any additional security mechanisms other than normal
page-table protections provided by the SMMU or/and GMMU. SyncPoint requests are expected to be MMU-translated in the same manner as other requests to MSS.
#### 3.1.2.10 Memory Controller (DRAM) Channels
- The SoC has 16 Memory Controller channels, each controlling a x16 LPDDR5 channel, together
implementing a 256-bit DRAM I/O interface. The channel logic is divided into four sections. CIFLL, WCAM, and Row Sorter represent the “MC” portion, while the final section is EMC and contains DRAM control, ECC, and Encryption logic.
##### 3.1.2.10.1 CIFLL
- CIFLL is the interface unit between MCF and the row sorter. It includes input FIFOs, async
crossings, DRBC conversion, encryption key ID lookup, stat range comparison, and Ring 0x/Ring 0, which implement the final ring arbitration.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.10.2 WCAM
WCAM is the point of global visibility for the memory subsystem. Write requests are acknowledged at WCAM, even though the writes may not be committed to DRAM until later. WCAM tracks pending writes so it can apply them to subsequent reads to the same address. WCAM stores the write data for writes that are being arbitrated. It has associative lookup logic to locate in-flight write data associated with any read that is scheduled. WCAM also implements the read-modify- write required for ECC and Encryption.
##### 3.1.2.10.3 Row Sorter/Arbiter
- The row sorter/arbiter takes a stream of requests from WCAM in bank queues and produces a
DRAM-efficient and latency-sensitive stream of activate, read, write, and out of order per-bank refresh commands. The MC row sorter also handles All-Bank-Refresh, Refresh Management for Row Hammer (RFM) and power-down-modes (ACPD and DSR). Periodic calibrations are also now in the mcclk domain with an ownership arbiter that decides between periodic calibration commands and normal row sorter arbitration.
##### 3.1.2.10.4 EMC
EMC maps the stream of activate, read, write, and refresh commands from the Row Sorter into actual DRAM commands. In addition, it handles maintenance operations such as power-down and periodic training. It also contains the decryption and ECC blocks for response data.
#### 3.1.2.11 Addressing
##### 3.1.2.11.1 40 (39)-bit Virtual Addressing
SoC clients provide 40 bits of address at the AXI interface. Bit 39 is used to indicate conversion between TEGRA_RAW and XBAR_RAW block linear sector ordering. Therefore, a 39-bit virtual address space is supported. The Arm SMMU supports a 49-bit input virtual address. The top 10 SMMU virtual address input bits are driven to zero in the SMMU wrapper. If all 39 virtual address bits are used, the page table can be three levels deep, making worst-case TLB misses expensive (and bad for ISO). To reduce the overhead of page table walks, software only instantiates the number of levels needed for the maximum VA allocation for the context. In many cases, this should be under 1 GB (30 bits), which requires only a two-level table. 1 level 2 MB (2 ^ (12 + 9)) 21 bits 2 level 1 GB (2 ^ (12 + 2 * 9)) 30 bits 3 level 512 GB (2 ^ (12 + 3 * 9)) 39 bits

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.11.2 128GB Maximum DRAM Size
A maximum attached DRAM size of 128GB is supported. Since the 0-2GB physical address range is dedicated to MMIO, DRAM starts at 2GB, so the physical address range for DRAM is from 2GB to 130GB. Additional details:
- Because the GPU has only 37 physical address bits available (0-128GB range), GPU can only
access 126GB of DRAM. In 128GB DRAM configs, it is recommended that software place carveouts and service buffers that do not need access by GPU in the 128-130GB physical address range.
- When ECC is enabled, the maximum addressable DRAM size is 112GB, since 1/8 of memory is
dedicated to ECC storage. In this configuration, GPU can access all available DRAM. 128-bit DRAM configurations are limited to 64GB (56GB when ECC is enabled).
##### 3.1.2.11.3 StreamID Specification of Context and Virtual Machine ID
- The Arm SMMU uses a StreamID field, associated with each request, to specify which Address
Space ID (ASID) and associated context, and which Virtual Machine ID (VMID) to use. The StreamID field at the client interface is 8-bits wide. Only 128 StreamIDs are supported, so StreamID[7] is ignored. StreamID is programmed into client registers by the hypervisor (or by boot code in non-hypervisor systems) and conveyed to MSS over the client’s AXI interface. MSS additionally provides a per- client pair of registers that can be programmed to override the client-provided StreamID value with a value from the registers. The main intention for these registers is to provide StreamID values for clients with no internal support for StreamID. The OVERRIDE_ADD mode enables the display client to output a window ID field on the StreamID interface and have that added to the base StreamID value in the StreamID override register, so that each display window is effectively a separate virtual client.
#### 3.1.2.12 Address-based Steering
##### 3.1.2.12.1 DRAM Channel Steering
- Steering of requests to logical DRAM channels is determined by the
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_* registers. The following equation determines the logical
channel: logical_chan[3:0] = chan[3:0] & (num_channels-1), where chan[0] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_0_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9]) chan[1] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_1_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9]) chan[2] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_2_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9])

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
chan[3] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_3_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9]) 512B versus 1 KiB interleave is determined as follows: interleave_512B = EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_0_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9] |
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_1_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9] |
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_2_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9] |
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_3_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9];
The recommended settings of the registers are the following:
- Channels
- Interleave
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_* registers
512B
- MASK_0: 32’b 0010 0111 1010 1111 0101 001x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 0101 0110 0011 1100 1010 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0011 1111 0010 0110 0100 100x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_3: 32’b 1110 0010 0100 0100 0011 000x xxxx
xxxx 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 0010 0111 1010 1111 0100 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 0101 0110 0011 1100 1010 100x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0011 1111 0010 0110 0101 000x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_3: 32’b 1110 0010 0100 0100 0010 000x xxxx
xxxx 8,4 512B
- MASK_0: 32’b 1011 1001 0100 1111 0101 001x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 1100 1010 1110 0100 1010 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0010 1110 0111 0110 0100 100x xxxx
xxxx 8,4 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 1011 1001 0100 1111 0100 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 1100 1010 1110 0100 1010 100x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0010 1110 0111 0110 0101 000x xxxx
xxxx For there to be no aliasing of memory addresses (that is, two physical addresses mapping to the same DRAM location), the mask bits that correspond to the channel bits in the physical address must allow all channels to be selected. Normally this is done by having a unique chan_base bit set in each mask register. For simplicity in the reverse mapping, we require this for legal settings of the mask registers. For best performance, the channel mask registers should be programmed with optimized settings given above.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.12.2 DRAM Bank Steering
- Steering of requests to DRAM banks (within a device within a channel) is determined by the
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_{0,1,2,3} registers. The following equation determines the
bank: bank[0] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_0_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) bank[1] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_1_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) bank[2] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_2_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) bank[3] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_3_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) The variable xaddr is the physical address with the channel bits right-shifted out as follows: 4-channel mode: xaddr[31:10] = (addr[33:12] >> 2) 8-channel mode: xaddr[31:10] = (addr[34:13] >> 3) 16-channel mode: xaddr[31:10] = (addr[35:14] >> 4) Note that in a 16-bank LPDDR5 systems with four bank groups, bank[3:2] select the bank group and bank[1:0] select the bank within bank group. The recommended settings of the registers are the following: 8 banks
- Channels
- Interleave
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_* registers
4, 8, 16 512B, 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 0101 1100 1010 0111 1000 01xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 1110 0101 0111 0010 0100 10xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 1001 0111 0011 1011 1011 00xx xxxx
xxxx
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_0=0x5CA78400
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_1=0xE5724800
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_2=0x973BB000
16 banks
- Channels
- Interleave
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_* registers
4, 8, 16 512B, 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 1011 0101 0111 1010 1111 10xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 0101 1111 1010 1101 1010 01xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 1101 0001 1001 1110 0110 00xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_3: 32’b 1111 0010 0110 1011 0001 00xx xxxx
xxxx

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_0=0xB57AF800
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_1=0x5FADA400
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_2=0xD19E3000
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_3=0xF26B1000
For there to be no aliasing of memory addresses (that is, two physical addresses mapping to the same DRAM location), the mask bits that correspond to the bank bits in the physical address must allow all banks to be selected. Normally this is done by having a unique bank bit set in each mask register. For simplicity in the reverse mapping, we require this for legal settings of the mask registers. For best performance, program the channel mask registers with the optimized settings given above.
##### 3.1.2.12.3 iGPU NVLink Steering
Incoming iGPU requests are steered to one of the iGPU NVLink interfaces based upon an address hash determined by the GPU. The nominal interleave is 256B. Responses are routed to the NVLink interface that originated the request.
#### 3.1.2.13 Virtual Channels
Virtual channels allow independence and differentiated quality of service (QoS) for multiple logical streams that share a common physical channel.
##### 3.1.2.13.1 Virtual Channels for Quality of Service
The SoC has a robust mechanism to provide QoS to the different traffic classes. The major traffic classes are described below:
- Isochronous (ISO). Clients have fixed latency requirements and specified bandwidth that is
provided within a time horizon of hundreds of nsec (display and camera). Bandwidth disruptions for system events like DVFS and system training are provisioned for with appropriate buffering. Data is needed in the required time or pixels are dropped.
- Soft ISO (SISO). Clients have fixed bandwidth requirements within a time horizon of
milliseconds. Stalls are allowed within this time period so long as the specified bandwidth is provided for a specified minimum fraction of each period (for example, NVDEC, NVENC, and PVA). Processing for a frame must be completed within the frame time or frame is dropped. Non-ISO (NISO). Best-effort service. Faster is better, but there is no hard deadline and no guarantees.
- Low-latency (LL). Client performance depends on lowest possible latency (for example,CPU
reads).
- Low-latency SISO (SISO_LL). This is used for NISO page-table misses and Cortex-A9 CPU
reads. The requests are SISO, but latency is critical to meet the clients’ performance

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
requirements. SISO_LL is a hybrid: SISO_LL requests travel on the ISO VC from hubs through MCF but split into their own VC in the channel.
- The ISO and SISO virtual channels are “provisioned,” meaning that under normal conditions
requests launched into the virtual channel proceed to the memory channel (or final destination) without backpressure, thus should traverse the MSS pipeline with relatively low latency. The NISO virtual channel is “unprovisioned” meaning that when DRAM (or final destination) is oversubscribed, requests can back up and fill the virtual channel. The latency under these conditions can be high— it is a function of the load issued by all the clients. Thus, in a case in which clients may saturate DRAM, the NISO virtual channel is only suited to “best effort” service. The ISO virtual channel is special in that all interactions with the other virtual channels and other uncontrolled sources of stalls are avoided so that latency is predictable. Ring 1 and Ring 2 DDA settings are used to prioritize ISO over other VCs and SISO over NISO above the TBUs. There are dedicated ISO SMMU TBUs to prevent SMMU slowdowns from other VCs from affecting ISO. VCs are provided from clients, through hubs, MCF, and SCF to Ring 0 at each Memory Controller Channel. The Ring 0 arbiter arbitrates between the head of each VC as it selects requests for the row sorter. At that point, row sorter priorities and deadlines determine which order requests are satisfied.
##### 3.1.2.13.2 Virtual Channels to Prevent Deadlock
Two additional virtual channels are needed to remove dependencies between streams of requests that can cause deadlock:
- TRANS_DONE to convey the RMW completion signal from GPU L2 to SCF. Without this
additional virtual channel, the TRANS_DONE command could be blocked behind a request waiting for the RMW to complete, causing deadlock. The four main virtual channels (NISO, SISO, ISO, CPU_LL), are conveyed to the DRAM channels, where they get resolved. This is done in a dual-level ring structure: Ring 0x followed by Ring 0.
#### 3.1.2.14 Arbitration, Throttling, and Deadlines
Arbitration, throttling, and deadlines are used to improve QoS for clients. The goals are to:
- Provide clients with required bandwidth
- Improve utilization by preventing congestion
- Reduce client latency and limit latency outliers

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.14.1 Priority Tier Snap Arbiter (PTSA/DDAs)
DRAM utilization can vary depending on the characteristics of the request stream and can pause for periodic training, refresh, etc. Certain clients and traffic streams have bandwidth requirements that the system must satisfy despite the variable DRAM utilization. Bandwidth guarantee logic at the snap arbiter inputs is included. The bandwidth guarantee logic uses a DDA mechanism along with dynamic masking of the inputs to the snap arbiter. For each input at any snap arbiter ring, provide the following control, state, and I/O. Note that signed (two's complement) fixed-point arithmetic is used for the bandwidth calculations, using N integer bits (including sign) and F fraction bits. For this SoC, the values are N=11 and F=12.
- Name
- Control, state, I/O
- Fixed pt format
(#int bits. #frac bits)
- Description
request input -
- Request is present at the arbiter input
grant input -
- Request was granted last cycle
high_priority output -
- Request grants are behind the
guaranteed rate rate control 0.F
- Amount to increment accum every
clock. accum state N.F
- Accumulates number of grants “owed” to
this arbiter input; a negative value indicates that the input has had more grants than its guarantee max control N.0
- Maximum value of accum allowed
min control N.0
- Minimum value of accum allowed
(normally negative) grant_decrement global control 1.F
- Amount to subtract from accum every
clock that a grant occurs. This is a global config value that is used for all DDAs. Each clock cycle, the following computation is done for each snap arbiter input: high_priority = (accum >= 0.0); accum = accum + rate; if (grant) accum = accum – grant_decrement; if (accum > max) accum = max; if (accum < min) accum = min; If any snap arbiter input has a non-zero value for (high_priority and request), that is if high priority and at least one of its slots has a valid request, then we AND the snap arbiter request inputs with a mask where the mask value is the input’s high_priority signal (the input’s high_priority is used as a mask for all the input’s requests). If no input has a non-zero value for (high_priority and request),

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
then there is no masking of the snap arbiter inputs. Thus, any inputs that are “behind” are handled in the next snap arbiter round while inputs that are not behind are excluded. DDAs are provided on the Ring 2 and Ring 1 snap arbiter rings in the client hubs, within SCF at merge points between CPU and DMA traffic, and Ring 0 and Ring 0x in the Memory Controller Channels.
- Frequency versus Use-case Programming of Registers
Software usually requires that a given register must be owned by a single driver. The clocks driver is responsible for registers that depend on frequency and the client/ISO manager drivers are responsible for registers that depend on use case. Therefore, display and other ISO clients whose bandwidth demands are constant regardless of clock frequency, rate, minimum, and maximum, are programmed by the display driver.
- Display and other ISO client DDA rates are typically programmed to provide the appropriate
bandwidth for a given use case at maximum mcclk/emcclk/scfclk with grant_decrement = 1 at this maximum frequency. At lower clock frequencies, rather than increasing each input’s rate parameter (which would require control of the rate registers by multiple drivers), the clocks driver changes the global grant_decrement value instead. Clients whose bandwidth should scale down at lower clock frequencies (such as CPU) have their rate programmed by the clocks driver as well, so it scales down with frequency. In general, a given client is categorized either as a use-case- dependent client or a frequency-dependent client, which dictates whether the client driver or clocks driver owns the client’s DDA register. The grant_decrement register is shadowed so it can be automatically updated when a frequency change occurs. For example, the CPU’s rate needs to scale down with EMCCLK so it does not overwhelm the available bandwidth.
##### 3.1.2.14.2 Request Throttling
Throttling of requests is an important way to prevent congestion and saturation by low priority requests. For regions of the design in which there are no VCs (for example the output Ring 1), local throttling is used to prevent low priority VCs from head-of-line blocking high-priority VCs.
- Hub Partition Client Bandwidth Throttling
This limits the bandwidth consumed by a single partition client. A bandwidth throttle is provided at each partition client, which operates similarly to the DDAs at the ring arbiters that guarantee bandwidth, only these throttles cap bandwidth. Each clock cycle, an accumulator is incremented by a client-specific rate increment that corresponds to a 64 byte transfer. Simultaneously, if the partition client receives a grant from the ring arbiter, the accumulator is decremented by a globally configured grant decrement value. Requests from a partition client to the arbiter are masked if the accumulator value is negative.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
Since a client will not receive any further grants once its request is masked, the lowest possible value for the accumulator is the grant decrement value.
- Hub Output Throttling to Prevent Response Path Backpressure
The response paths from MCF to the client hubs have limited bandwidth – less than full DRAM bandwidth. Arbitration inefficiencies at the MCF output response crossbar can further reduce bandwidth on each of these paths to about 90% of the theoretical response bandwidth. If 1) clients make large requests or, 2) if the input request crossbar selects requests from a hub that exceed the response bandwidth to that hub, persistent backups can occur at the output response crossbar through the MCF/SCF response pipeline, all the way back to the channels. Since the response paths have no virtual channels, priority responses (e.g., ISO SMMU page-table-misses) can be trapped and delayed. Also, if the input request crossbar chooses requests from a hub at a higher rate than the responses can be delivered, the backpressure reduces the rate the row sorters can schedule requests, reducing DRAM bandwidth.
- Ring 0/Ring 0x Throttling
- Ring 0 and Ring 0x have DDAs at each input, which provides bandwidth control under most
circumstances. The input request stream at Ring 0 additionally needs throttling to prevent the row sorter from filling with low priority requests (which could head-of-line block high-priority ISO requests) and to prevent CPU requests, which normally get high priority, from starving SISO and NISO.
##### 3.1.2.14.3 Latency Allowance and Deadlines
The Memory Subsystem supports clients with different latency requirements. The architecture achieves this by calculating a deadline for each request as it enters the memory subsystem and then prioritizing requests that reach their deadline and have not been serviced. When all requests are within their deadline, the arbiter grants requests to maximize efficiency (Efficiency Arbitration Mode). If any request(s) have reached their deadline, the arbiter operates in Latency Arbitration Mode, giving high priority to the expired request(s). For a variety of reasons, an expired request may not be able to be granted immediately. Here are several definitions that are useful in the explanations: Expiration Time. The time between a request reaching its deadline and the time it is granted by the arbiter. Latency Tolerance. The latency a client can tolerate while running at its design bandwidth. This may be governed by a) the size of internal latency buffers within the client or b) the size of the client’s MCCIF response buffer (which needs to be large enough to store all the client’s requests outstanding in the memory controller). The latency allowance should be less than the Latency Tolerance, minus the expected Expiration Time and minus pipeline latencies not accounted for in the latency allowance, to avoid stalling the client.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Bandwidth-disruption time. The time service at a channel may be disrupted for infrequent
events, such as frequency changes, periodic training, ZQ Calibration, and so forth.
- Deadline Computation
When a request is stored in the partition client (PC) FIFO, a deadline is computed for it. The deadline is computed by adding the latency allowance (LA) of the issuing client to the current timestamp. The LA is programmable on a per-client basis. Slack is defined as:
- Slack = Deadline – Timestamp
Negative slack means the request has been pending in the Row Sorter for longer than its latency allowance and should receive latency-mode arbitration. Modular arithmetic is used to handle timestamp wraparound. To decouple the concept of time in the Row Sorter from the clock period of the MCCLK, the units of deadlines, LAs, timestamps, and slack are all stored in units of ticks. A tick is the wall-clock granularity; nominally 30ns. There are configuration variables to tell the TIMER unit how to translate MCCLK cycles into the appropriate timestamp increments for the current clock- frequency.
- Determining the Latency Allowance
NVIDIA determines the latency allowance setting for each client. These values are programmed into registers that determine the deadline for client requests. In many cases, the latency allowance is statically programmed. In some cases, it must be dynamically programmed based on client bandwidth and/or memory clock frequencies. When latency allowance is exceeded, the request expires. Requests are expected to be granted within the expiration time. Thus, the latency expected a given request to achieve is given by: target_latency = latency_allowance + expiration_time + static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter This target_latency should match expected_latency in the following Little’s Law equation: latency_buffer_size = design_bandwidth * expected_latency Combining the equations, setting expected_latency = target_latency and latency_buffer_size = mccif_size, design_bandwidth = client_bandwidth, and solving for latency_allowance, results in the following: latency_allowance = mccif_size / client_bandwidth
- static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter
- expiration_time
The following table shows the terms in static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Table 3.1 Terms in static_latency_from_snap_arbiter_to_row_sorter
- Static latency AXI to TBU input
scfclk
- Static latency from WCAM to RespXbar
mcclk
- Static Latency from RespXbar to client
197.2 scfclk Expiration time is the time between a request expiring and being serviced under normal conditions while the DRAMs are active. This includes the tick granularity, time to finish processing another active list, time to switch from a different direction or rank, precharge, and activate time, and so on. There is also additional time to service one other request that may have expired at the same time (more than this is relegated to bandwidth disruption time). The following table provides the expiration time calculation for LPDDR5.
- Table 3.2 Expiration Time Calculation
- Parameter
- LPDDR5
ns dramclks
- RCD
7 txns
- W2P
turn Penalty (hidden behind w2p)
- RCD
- TA catchup
- RAS
- Total
Different latency allowance rubrics are used for: 1. 2. 3. 4. bandwidth-soak read clients low-latency CPU read clients
- ISO read clients (i.e., display)
write clients The rules are programmed by the NVIDIA driver based in information provided from an API.
- Latency Allowance for Bandwidth-Soak Read Clients

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
Bandwidth soak clients use the above equation and assume that client_bandwidth is 85% of the peak_dram_bw. The LA for NISO read clients at peak dramclk frequency is 41 tickets; for SISO clients it is 37 tickets.
- Note that client_bandwidth, unloaded_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter, and
expiration_time are all functions of clock frequency. For highest accuracy, perform this calculation for each set of operating frequencies. However, since the frequency-dependent terms are roughly inversely proportional to dramcclk frequency and, assuming the various clock frequencies in the MSS pipeline roughly scale with each other, the latency allowance is estimated at a given frequency by: latency_allowance = target_latency_allowance (at base_freq)
- (base_freq / emcclk_freq)
At low frequencies, the latency allowance can be larger than the maximum value allowed by the register field and so capped at this maximum value (255 ticks, where a tick is 30 nsec). Since latency_allowance for bandwidth soak clients depends on frequency, the values must be updated when a frequency change occurs. The proper values are programmed by emc_reg_calc.h. Note that this equation does not take into account large latency disruptions caused by infrequent events (also called bandwidth disruption events).
- Latency Allowance for CPU Read Clients
Because CPU reads are latency-critical, the latency allowance needs to be short. The default is 4 ticks (120 ns), but the high-priority CPU request feature can drop it to 0 ticks for designated requests.
- Latency Allowance for ISO Read (i.e., display) Clients
Display clients differ in several significant ways from the non-ISO clients: 1.
- Non-ISO clients can tolerate occasional bandwidth disruptions or excess-latency events;
average throughput is what matters. Display clients can tolerate occasional bandwidth disruptions as long as there is enough data prefetched and buffered in the mempool to tolerate the bandwidth disruption; display clients must not underflow.
- Display’s internal latency tolerance is limited only by the number of queued up read
responses in its internal mempool buffer. The memfetch unit and display itself independently track progress through the frame. Memfetch greedily requests all the pixels required for a frame, subject only to back-pressure from MSS and isohub clock. The datapath portion of display reads pixels from the response buffer in raster order at the required rate. There is no internal buffer connecting memfetch and display proper that limits display’s latency tolerance. 2. Display’s internal mempool is used to tolerate: Total latency, which includes display internal latency, MSS static latencies + drain time of a saturated row sorter
- Bandwidth disruption events

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- DVFS events
- Blocklinear SMMU miss period buffering
- Fetch amortized buffering
Display’s MCCIF buffer is used to tolerate static latencies and all the usual dynamic latencies incurred during steady state operation of the memory subsystem (notably not bandwidth disruption or DVFS events). The considerations for determine display latency allowance are complex and are encapsulated in NVIDIA software.
- Latency Allowance for Write Clients
Because of the WCAM, the latency allowance for write clients is greatly simplified which required quick scheduling of writes so that write acknowledges could be returned. Once a request has passed the WCAM, even for a low-latency client like CPU, the contents of the write are globally visible. The scheduling of the write can be done to facilitate DRAM efficiency without direct impact on the client. It is desirable to have a high latency allowance for writes, so the row sorter has flexibility in when to schedule writes and there is time for multiple write requests to the same page to arrive and be processed together. The disadvantage to a long latency allowance for writes is that a large fraction of the row sorter may be tied up with writes and unavailable for buffering reads so that reads can be done efficiently. The latency allowance equation for writes is: latency allowance (emcclk) = min(255, 128*(1066 MHz/emcclk)) The deadline determined at the hub is ignored and all write requests are re-deadlined with LA
- MC_LATENCY_ALLOWANCE_CIFLL_WR_0 (0x3ff) at the channel. Direct turn arbitration generally
determines when writes are scheduled. Write scheduling is determined by direction turn arbitration, not deadline expiration. The large LA of 1023 ticks ensures that writes do not remain in the row sorter for an excessive time.
#### 3.1.2.15 Logical Transaction Pipeline
Requests enter and pass through the memory system in a logical pipeline and are distributed over memory-system components. These requests can spend differing amounts of time, may be steered to different paths, and potentially may be reordered. Client attributes may be modified at certain stages. The following table lists the stages in the logical pipeline for SoC clients. NVLink requests merge into the pipeline at the input request XBar in MCF and share the remainder of this pipeline. Two paths to DRAM memory are available: the non-coherent path, and the path through SCF which supports I/O coherence. Requests to SCF may (or may not) snoop the CPU caches
- Table 3.3 Logical Transaction Pipeline
- Location
- Operation
- Controlling Register(s)
- Effect

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Client
- Interface
- Receive
transaction
- AXICIF
- MemType
override <C>_MEMTYPE_OVERRIDE
- SO_DEV=(AxCache==0bxx0x), may be overridden
based on register setting.
- AXICIF
- HubID
determination <MC>_HUB_MASK <C>_NORMAL_HUBID_OVERR
- IDE
<C>_NORMAL_HUBID <C>_SODEV_HUBID
- Determine HubID using address-based hash or
override value.
- PCFIFO
- PCFIFO
interlock
- PCFIFO_<C>_ORDERED_CLIE
- NT
- Conditionally stalls transactions until conflicting prior
transactions have completed.
- PCFIFO
- Large read
request coalescing
- MC_COALESCE_CTRL_0
- MC_CLIENT_COALESCE_CON
- FIG_*
<C>_COALESCER_ENABLED
- Whether to coalesce identified sequences of 64B read
requests into large read requests.
- Ring 1/Ring
- Virtual channel
determination <C>_TRAFFIC_TYPE_CONFIG
- Identify client as ISO, SISO, NISO
- TBU
- Wrapper
- AXI ID override
<C>_AXI_ID_OVERRIDE
- Conditionally overrides AXI ID
- TBU
- Wrapper
- NS, STREAMID
override <C>_NS_OVERRIDE <C>_STREAMID_OVEERIDE
- Conditionally overrides NS flag and Stream ID
- TBU
- Wrapper
- TBU steering
control
- SMMU_BYPASS_CTRL
<C>_TBU_MASK <C>_NORMAL_TBUID _OVERRIDE <C>_NORMAL_TBUID <C>_SO_DEV_TBUID
- Determine TBU ID (or TBU bypass)
- TBU
- Wrapper
- SMMU steering
control
- SMMU_CLIENT_STEERING_CT
- RL
<C>_SMMU_STEERING_CTRL
- Select between ISO and NISO SMMU
- TBU
- Wrapper
- Translation to
- ACE-Lite
- AXI fields and per-translation flags mapped to ACE-
Lite fields (AxCACHE, AxDOMAIN).
- AxDOMAIN forced to System Shareable (0b11) for
SO_DEV requests per AMBA specification.
- TBU
- Wrapper
- Preserve
- SO_DEV
through SMMU
- MC_TBU_TRANSACTION_ATT
R_CTRL
- TBU_SO_DEV_ATTR_PRESERV
E
- Whether to preserve upstream SO_DEV attribute
through SMMU (default) or reset it based on AxDomain in PTE.
- TBU
- Translation
- TBU page table entries and/or
internal registers
- Addresses transformed from virtual to physical. PTE
values determine or modify various transaction attributes.
- Request
- Coloring
- Block (RCB)
- Barrier
processing
- Consumes barrier request from TBU, sets CNTR_ID
attribute, tracks transactions by color, provides barrier response to TBU.
- Client Hub
- AXI to MCF
command mapping Map AXI to MCF commands.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Client Hub
- Coherent
steering and snoop control <C>_COH_PATH_OVERRIDE_
- NORMAL
<C>_COH_PATH_OVERRIDE_S O_DEV order_id
- SCF routing decision and conditional override of snoop
bit.
- Client Hub
- Order ID and
sequence_num generation
- MC_CLIENT_ORDER_ID
<C>_ORDER_ID
- Select order_id for ordered write clients and attach
sequence_num for ordered streams
- MCF
- Slice
determination
- CHANNEL_MASK_*
Map transaction to one of four MCF/SCF slices.
- SecChk
- Error checks
E.g., EMEM_BOM,
- EMEM_SIZE, SYSRAM_BOM,
- SYSRAM_TOM, GSC and VPR
checks, etc.
- Various error checks NISO_REMOTE requests that
DECERR map to NISO VC.
- Coherent
path
- SCF
- SNOC / URT
interlock
- Various
- Enforces ordering for ordered threads and same-
address ordering.
- SCF
- Coherence
fabric
- Various
- Requests with dependencies (on snoops or pending
transactions) may be stalled. Transactions may be merged or satisfied by SCF cache according to transaction rules.
- SCF
- Channel
determination
- SCF version of
- CHANNEL_ENABLE,
- CHANNEL_MASK_*
- SCF has its own copy of these registers for requests
originated from CCPLEX.
- Memory
- Destination
(DRAM,
- SysRAM,
- SyncPoint)
- Completion
- Various
- Transactions are completed according to Memory
- Destination ordering rules. ECC and/or encryption may
be applied.
- SCF
- Read response
reordering
- Various
- Responses to different addresses may be reordered by
the coherence fabric.
- SCF
- WrAck
reordering
- ORDER_ID_*
- WrAcks for ordered clients are processed in full or
partial order at URT. WrAcks may be reordered after URT.
- MCCIF
- Response
reordering Responses are returned to SoC clients in order.
- Noncoher
ent (direct) path
- MCF
- Channel
determination
- CHANNEL_ENABLE,
- CHANNEL_MASK_*
- Determine channel
- Memory
- Destination
(SCF cache,
- DRAM,
- SysRAM,
+SyncPoint)
- Completion
- Various
- Transactions are completed according to Memory
- Destination ordering rules. ECC and/or encryption may
be applied.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- MCCIF
- Response
reordering Responses are returned to SoC clients in order.
#### 3.1.2.16 Transaction Ordering
Clients differ in their ordering and bandwidth requirements. The AXI interface provided at the client/MC boundary provides a general framework for expressing ordering. Some clients are not equipped to express their ordering requirements using AXI, so configuration registers are provided to specify ordering behavior for these clients.
##### 3.1.2.16.1 Normal MSS Clients
The DMA fabric treats all clients except NVLink and PCI ordered clients as normal clients. Normal MSS clients use the AXI ordering model for Normal memory by default. MSS provides the following ordering guarantees to each normal MSS client. 1.
- Read responses are returned in the same order that requests were received at the input to
the DMA fabric regardless of the AXIID, even though AXI only requires this for requests using the same AXIID. a.
- Reads can get data from younger writes since AXI places no ordering dependencies
between reads and writes. 2. Write acknowledges are returned in the same order that the writes were received at the input to the DMA fabric regardless of the AXIID. a.
- Writes can be completed in any order by the DMA fabric, but the write acknowledges
always return in order even though AXI only requires this for requests using the same AXIID. WrAck guarantees that all previous writes are globally visible.
##### 3.1.2.16.2 PCI Ordered Clients
For PCI-ordered clients such as PCIe, XUSB, and AZA_HDA, each IP is responsible for all PCI ordering requirements except for write after write (WAW) ordering. WAW ordering for these clients is the responsibility of both the client and the DMA fabric. MSS clients are not allowed to send a mixture of SO/DEV requests and Normal requests. The DMA fabric does not provide read after read ordering for any clients. SO/DEV reads requests are treated as Normal non-cacheable reads.
##### 3.1.2.16.3 High Bandwidth PCI Ordered Clients
High-bandwidth PCI-ordered writes use the SCF-interlock. The ordering interlock is implemented in SCF’s SNOC – a point where latencies are shortest since all interlock latencies are within one module. It directs full ordered bandwidth to one slice at a time. Each slice is provided with elasticity above and below the interlock to provide smooth bandwidth above and below the interlock.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
To use the high-bandwidth ordered architecture, client and software configuration must do the following: Client must connect to the ordered hub. If native AXI client: Client uses Device memory type. Client sets AXI ID to a constant value (e.g., 0). If legacy MCCIF client: Set AXI_ID_OVERRIDE to CGID_ZERO. All clients: Use MEMTYPE_OVERRIDE to force the MemType to Device. Set SO_DEV_HUBID to the appropriate value for the client. Set SO_DEV_TBUID to the appropriate value for the client. Disable the PCFIFO interlock for the client by programming the client-specific field in the MC_PCFIFO_CLIENT_CONFIG* register to UNORDERED. Set TRAFFIC_TYPE_CONFIG to NISO. Set ORDER_ID to one of ORD_1, ORD_2, or ORD_3. MSS hub configuration should steer requests to SCF. Requests are directed to an MCF slice using an address-based hash.
##### 3.1.2.16.4 Low Bandwidth PCI Ordered Clients
Low-bandwidth PCI ordered clients can use any client hub. They use the PCFIFO interlock during boot and use the high-bandwidth interlock afterwards. Client and software configurations must do the following:
- Client normally connects to the ordered hub but may connect to an unordered hub (for
example, if client requires ordering during boot but not during normal operation) If native AXI client: Client uses Device memory type. Client sets set AXI ID to a constant value (e.g., 0). If legacy MCCIF client: Set AXI_ID_OVERRIDE to CGID_ZERO. All clients: Use MEMTYPE_OVERRIDE to force the MemType to Device. Set SO_DEV_HUBID to the appropriate value for the client.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
Set SO_DEV_TBUID to the appropriate value for the client.
- Enable the PCFIFO interlock for the client by programming the client-specific field in the
MC_PCFIFO_CLIENT_CONFIG* register to ORDERED.
- TRAFFIC_TYPE_CONFIG may be programmed to NISO
- Set ORDER_ID to ORD_0 in the MC_CLIENT_ORDER_ID* register
Requests are directed to an MCF slice using an address-based hash.
- Requests can be routed through either the SCF or the MCF bypass path, using one of the
methods of specifying snooping/coherent routing. Ordered clients that need fast ordered writes must use the SCF path. Any client that consumes a buffer generated by an ordered client that wrote through SCF and depends on the ordering behavior must also use the SCF path.
#### 3.1.2.17 Error Checking and Reporting
There are multiple classes of errors that are detected by the system, as shown below. Containable means unrelated parts of the system may continue running while the affected client or subsystem is reset. The remaining columns describe what is done to the offending transaction, how the error is reported to the system, and how it is reported to the client.
- Table 3.4 Error Types and Responses
- Error type
- Where detected?
- Containa
ble
- Effect on
transaction
- Report to system
- Report to client
- Security check
failure
- Security check
blocks in MCF and
- SCF
- No
- DECERR bit set in
request.
- MCF: Log and
optional interrupt.
- SCF: Optional log and
interrupt (prefetcher can fetch out of range)
- Note: requests
arriving with DECERR from SMMU are not reported as failures at MCF.
- DECERR is reported
to client hub or
- NVLinkHub, but hubs
do not return DECERR to client.
- DECERR of PTC
request causes
- SMMU fault for
requests that hit on TLB entry.
- DRAM ECC
single-bit read error
- EMC
- Yes
- Correct data value
- Log and optional
interrupt
- None
- Pipeline ECC
single-bit error
- Point data is used
- Yes
- Correct data value
- Log and optional
interrupt
- None
- DRAM ECC
dual-bit read error
- EMC
- Yes
- None
- Log and optional
interrupt
- SLVERR bit set in data
packet
- Pipeline ECC
dual-bit error
- Point data is used
- Yes
- None
- Log and optional
interrupt
- SLVERR bit set in data
packet

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Error type
- Where detected?
- Containa
ble
- Effect on
transaction
- Report to system
- Report to client
- Parity
- Any unit that acts
on the item other than forwarding
- No
- Forward or
suppress, whichever is most natural
- Log and optional
interrupt
- None
- Timeout
- MSS implements
no timeouts N/A N/A N/A N/A
- DECERRs are detected in the SMMU and in the security check blocks in SCF and MCF. A DECERR
indicates the request itself is bad, irrespective of the data. Since DECERRs must generate a response, they must be passed through the pipeline. The DECERR bit is set in the request, so the request is effectively a NOP as it passes through the pipe. DECERRs are routed through SCF, or the bypass path based on the normal parameters of the request. Since a DECERR may have an illegal address, and handling illegal requests is a burden we do not want every memory resource to deal with, all DECERR requests are directed to DRAM; to the DRAM channel indicated by the channel mask decode, ignoring all BOM and TOM registers. Writes with DECERRs are suppressed and reads with DECERRs return all 1's. In general, the unit that detects a DECERR, generates an interrupt for it (under configuration register control). DRAM ECC errors are detected in EMC. EMC corrects single-bit errors and optionally logs them (frequent single-bit errors may indicate an imminent hardware failure). Uncorrectable double-bit errors set the slave error (SLVERR) flag in the data packet, are logged, and optionally generate an interrupt. The SLVERR bit is propagated up to the client. Pipeline ECC errors are detected in the unit that receives the data (whether MSS or a requesting unit). Single-bit errors are corrected and may optionally be logged. Uncorrectable double-bit errors set the SLVERR flag in the data packet, are logged, and optionally generate an interrupt. The SLVERR bit is propagated up to the client. NVLink protocol errors are detected by NVLink logic based on detectable corruption of a request. The error is logged and an interrupt optionally generated. The logic detecting the error may kill the request or forward it on, whichever is most convenient, since there's no obvious way to fix it and a hang is likely to result in any case. Parity errors indicate corruption of the command or address. The error is logged and an interrupt optionally generated. The logic detecting the parity error may kill the request or forward it on, whichever is most convenient, since there is no obvious way to fix it and a hang is likely to result in any case. The client AXI interface returns both the DECERR and SLVERR bits. Typically, at most one is set, but if both are set, DECERR prevails. Clients may or may not observe, or act on error responses.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
#### 3.1.2.18 Access Checks (DECERRs)
SMMU performs access checks based on page-table access restrictions. Requests that fail are marked as DECERRs. The NVLink protection table performs address-based access checks for iGPU and NVLink Master requests. In addition, there are several categories of access checks, which ensure requests are legal and that they follow the access rules for apertures:
- Address Range Checks
- VPR Checks
- GSC Checks
- AON TZ-SRAM Checks
- TZ-DRAM Checks
- SMMU Translation Checks
iGPU Carveout Checks
##### 3.1.2.18.1 Location of Access Checks
These additional security and range access checks are performed in the security check blocks in one of two locations: 1. SoC client requests at the input of MCFSlice. Previously, SoC client checks were done within the two client hubs. Now there are four or more client hubs, plus GPU requests come in separately from the hubs. The location minimizes the number of instances of the security check logic, while protecting all SoC client inputs, whether coherent or not. If a request fails a security check, it causes a DECERR. Details of the violating request (address, client ID, failure
- ID) are logged in the MC_ERR_* registers. DECERR write requests are suppressed by clearing
byte enables. DECERR read requests return all 1's, thus preventing dissemination of secure data. If interrupts are enabled, MC throws an interrupt.
- CCPLEX requests at the ingress to SCF. CPU cluster requests are checked the ingress of
- SCF for the same reason as above—to distinguish CCPLEX requests from SoC client requests
in systems that can forward and merge requests. Since no lookup is needed for these tests, the latency can be folded into an existing pipeline stage. If a request fails a security check it is DECERRed. If the request came from a CPU client, an MCA event is generated with a code indicating the type of event (it is not necessarily an error). If the request came from a non- CPU client, no error logging is done. DECERR write requests are suppressed by clearing byte enables. DECERR read requests return all 1's, thus preventing dissemination of secure data. 2.
- Note that SoC client requests that enter SCF are guaranteed to have been fully checked for
DECERRs. They do not need to be further checked for DECERRs, although a given request may have its DECERR bit set based on a prior check.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.18.2 Routing and Memory Destination Errors
Requests are routed to the various memory destinations (DRAM, SysRAM, etc.) over multiple paths (IO coherent path and non-coherent path). Not all combinations are supported. The following combinations are illegal and result in DECERRs and interrupts:
- DECERR_COH_ISO – ISO requests on the coherent path
- This error can be suppressed using the programmable register
MC_MCF_SCF_CFG_0.ALLOW_ISO_REQ_ON_COHERENT_PATH (default is to DECERR).
- DECERR_IGPU_RESTRICTED_ACCESS – iGPU is only allowed to access specific regions of
memory as defined by IGPU_ACCESSIBLE_CARVEOUT(1|2)_(BOM|SIZE)
- The status register MC_ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_STATUS_0 contains the encoding
- ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_ERR_TYPE which describes the kind of error. MC_ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_ADR_0
contains the address of the violating transaction. A new bit, DECERR_ROUTE_SANITY_INT, in the MC_INTSTATUS indicates routing related programming errors.
#### 3.1.2.19 Reporting of Functional Errors
- Each of the following MSS subunits can generate interrupts to inform software of completed
events or error conditions encountered by the hardware. The table below gives the subunit and the subunit's primary interrupt status register.
- Table 3.5 Subunit and Primary Interrupt Status Register
- Module
- Interrupt Status Register
- MCF
- MC_INTSTATUS_0*
- HUB
- MC_HUB_INSTATUS_0
- HUB_COMMON
- MC_HUBC_INTSTATUS_0
- SyncPoint
- MC_MSS_SBS_INTSTATUS_0
- MC Channel
- MC_CH_INTSTATUS_0
- EMC
- EMC_INTSTATUS
Note: MC_INSTATUS_0 is the legacy interrupt status register. Each of the subunits ideally contains the three interrupt registers below, but in some cases only contains the first two: 1.
- INTSTATUS. Contains the interrupt vector. A bit in this register is set when the hardware
detects the specific condition that triggers the interrupt. Writing a 1 to the interrupt vector bit clears the associated interrupt.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
2. INTMASK. Contains mask vector for the interrupt vector. Each bit in this register corresponds to a bit in INTSTATUS. If the MASK bit for an interrupt is set (UNMASKED), the corresponding interrupt is forwarded to the global interrupt logic on the non-critical wire. INTPRIORITY. (Not implemented in all units) Contains priority mask vector for the interrupt vector. Each bit in this register corresponds to a bit in INTSTATUS. If the MASK bit for an interrupt is set (UNMASKED), the corresponding interrupt is forwarded to the global interrupt logic on the critical wire. 3. Some subunits have two wires to the global interrupt status logic in HUB-common, and others have only the non-critical wire: intr – interrupt signal to global interrupt logic in HUB-common critical_intr – critical interrupt signal to global interrupt logic in HUB-common For error conditions, ERR_*STATUS registers are provided to log information on the cause of the error (generally the address of the offending transaction, which could be virtual or physical), and other information relevant to the error.
##### 3.1.2.19.1 Global Interrupt Interface
- Global interrupt logic in HUB-common aggregates the incoming signals from the subunits and
exports the following signals to the interrupt processing logic in LIC: mss2lic_mc_critical_intr – OR of incoming critical_intr signals, indicating critical interrupt is active mss2lic_mc_intr – OR of incoming intr signals, indicating non-critical interrupt is active. Each TCU generates secure and non-secure interrupts, and they are routed directly to LIC: mss2lic_smmu_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU0 mss2lic_smmu_comb_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU0 mss2lic_smmu1_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU1 mss2lic_smmu1_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU1 mss2lic_smmu2_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU2 (ISO SMMU) mss2lic_smmu2_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU2 (ISO SMMU) mss2lic_smmu3_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU3 mss2lic_smmu3_comb_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU3 mss2lic_smmu4_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU4 mss2lic_smmu4_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU 4 The following registers within HUB-common show the status of the non-critical and critical input wires from each of the subunits:
- MC_GLOBAL_INTSTATUS_0
- MC_GLOBAL_INTSTATUS_1_0

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- MC_GLOBAL_CRITICAL_INTSTATUS_0
- MC_GLOBAL_CRITICAL_INTSTATUS_1_0
##### 3.1.2.19.2 MCF Interrupts (including interrupts from the SecChk block)
The SecChk security block in MCF implements numerous security checks. When an address decode error occurs, the offending address is captured in the MC_ERR_ADDR register and information about the error is captured in one or more MC_ERR_*STATUS registers. The captured information is intended to assist developers in debugging the error. A single request can trigger multiple errors. There are multiple error status registers (MC_ERR_*STATUS) which capture the status of different types of errors, as listed below:
- MC_ERR_STATUS – Multiple violations. When more than one of the following violations
occurs, the highest-priority violation is reported (listed below in descending priority order):
- ERR_TYPE = DECERR_EMEM – DRAM minimum/maximum allowed memory addresses
- ERR_TYPE = SECURITY_TRUSTZONE – TrustZone carveout violations
- MC_ERR_GENERALIZED_CARVEOUT_STATUS – GSC carveout violations
- MC_ERR_SEC_STATUS – SEC carveout violations
- MC_ERR_VPR_STATUS – VPR carveout violations
- MC_ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_STATUS – Routing incompatibility errors (including NVLink access
violations) The capture registers record the following information about the error: the physical address of the error (since security check is post SMMU) which type of fault the captured error corresponds to a read/write indicator the requestor Client ID the swap bit sent by the client
- Subsequent errors (of any type) do not change the status and address registers until the
corresponding interrupt is cleared.
- To prevent requests with address decode errors from modifying memory or accessing memory
they do not have permission to, the MC "squashes" the requests. A write request that is "squashed" has its byte-enables forced to all zeros; this prevents the write data from being applied to DRAM. A read request that is "squashed" has its read-return data forced to all-ones; this protects the data in DRAM from being read by nonsecure sources.
##### 3.1.2.19.3 NVLink Interrupts
- NVLink generates interrupts for malformed NVLink packets, unexpected responses, and NVLink
protection table violations, etc.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.19.4 Memory Controller Channel Interrupts
There is currently only one performance warning type interrupt: ARBITRATION_EMEM. It fires when the MC detects that a request has been pending in the Row Sorter long enough to hit the
- DEADLOCK_PREVENTION_SLACK_THRESHOLD. In addition to true performance problems, this
interrupt may fire in situations like clock frequency changes, when the EMC backpressures pending traffic for long periods of time. This interrupt is intended to help developers identify and debug performance and configuration issues.
##### 3.1.2.19.5 EMC Interrupts
EMC generates interrupts on the following conditions:
- ECC error buffer overflow
- ECC correctable error
- ECC uncorrectable error
- Clock change FIFO overflow
- DLL lock timeout
- DLL alarm: From the EMC Digital DLL when the output delay code reaches the maximum
value. Attempt to issue command to device which is in self-refresh.
- Read data from MRR is available (to prevent software from polling for data)
- DRAM clock change sequence complete
- Refresh overflow
##### 3.1.2.19.6 PCIe MSI
- Message Signaled Interrupts (MSIs) are interrupts conveyed from an endpoint device to the
interrupt controller by memory transactions, rather than dedicated wires. PCIe MSIs are 32-bit ordered writes received by the PCIe root port (an MSS client) with system physical addresses that fall within the 64MB MSI address region specified by msi_base (iob_msi_base_match/iob_msi_base_mask) where address bits 25-16 are greater than 31, address bits 25-16 are less than 992, and address bits 15-0 are 0x0000.
- The MSS Hub routes PCIE MSIs through the SMMU to ensure that devices can only trigger
interrupts assigned to the device. MSS Hub routes MSIs to SCF regardless of other considerations. SCF decodes the MSI address range and forwards MSIs to the IOBridge/GIC. MSIs are required to push all previous writes to visibility before the MSI is sent to the interrupt controller. Because GIC is a separate destination in SCF, the standard ordered write implementation for PCIe writes to memory do not provide the required ordering guarantees for MSI messages. MSI ordering is provided by an interlock in the PCIe controller that waits for WriteAcks of all previously issued writes before forwarding an MSI. Because ordering is handled externally and not by the

- MSS Registers
ordered write mechanism in SCF, MSS Hub converts MSIs to non-ordered writes before sending to MCF.
#### 3.1.2.20 Clocking
- There are separate PLLs for each set of 64 DRAM I/O pads. These four PLLs drive a clocking
structure with locally synchronous clocks for the following clock domains:
- Each set of 64 DRAM I/O pads and associated four EMC and four Memory Controller
- Channels
- The hub units: MCF, SCF, Client Hubs, and MSS HubCommon
- Data Backbone (DBB)
#### 3.1.2.21 Software Interfaces
The primary software interface for configuration is via the APB bus registers.
- Initial configuration
- Power management
- Device/Rank management
- SMMU translation management
- Surface allocation
- Statistics and debugging}(@{Key=3.1.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=#### 3.1.2.1 MSS Data Backbone
Clients connect using an AMBA AXI bus Socket interface to an AXI Client Interface (AXICIF) in the client partition. One or more AXICIFs connect to a Partition Client (PC) Interface, which connects the clients to a Tier Snap Arbiter (TSA) network, which provides a shared wiring path to the client hubs. Clients may directly connect to a client hub as well. The Data Backbone supports requests from 32B to 256B in size.
#### 3.1.2.2 Client Hubs
There are eight client hub instances:
- Four unordered hubs (Hub0/Hub1 and Hub2/Hub3) that get transactions from clients that
require no request ordering.
- One ordered hub (Hub4) that gets transactions from clients that require WAW request
ordering.
- Three Qual Engine (see Memory Qualification Engine below) hubs (Hub5-7) with a
single Qual Engine as client and no TBUs, which allow the Qual Engines in aggregate, to saturate DRAM. 1. 2. 3.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
**Figure 3.2 Client Hub Block Diagram**
- Unordered requests arriving on the TSA chain are connected to either the Hub0/1
pair or the Hub2/3 pair. They are steered to the even or odd hub in the pair using an address-hash- based steering function. The nominal interleave between hubs is 1 KiB. Ordered requests are steered to Hub4 (to the ordered hub).
- The figure below shows the overall hub topology

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
**Figure 3.3 MSS Hub Topology**
Each client hub contains the following significant modules:
- PCFIFO interlock for each client interface
- Bandwidth throttle DDA
- Mem Qual engine
- TBUs with wrapper logic (for SMMU translation–not present in the Qual Engine hubs)
- Hierarchical ring arbiter
- Hub throttling logic
##### 3.1.2.2.1 PCFIFO Interlock
The PCFIFO interlock associated with each client interface provides ordering for low bandwidth ordered clients. When the interlock for a client is enabled, the interlock logic stores the upper address bits down to the channel interleave (which is either 512B or 1KB) and other attributes such as StreamID. When a new client request strides outside a 512B or 1KB (configurable) region or has differences in another tracked attribute the new request is stalled until all outstanding write requests have completed. Since the memory system provides ordering for requests from a client to a 512B or 1KB region, this ensures the clients’ writes are committed in order. For more details and caveats see the section on Transaction Ordering below.
##### 3.1.2.2.2 Bandwidth Throttle DDA
Each client interface is equipped with a DDA that can cap the bandwidth requested by a client. This may be used to prevent certain oversubscription problems.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.2.3 Memory Qualification Engine
The Memory Qualification Engine (Qual Engine, MemQual or MIU) is a distributed synthetic load generator. It supports full DRAM bandwidth (256B per dbbclk) for either reads or writes. Its main purposes are to: 1. Provide a unit that can generate memory qualification request streams at full bandwidth that is easy to set up and use
- Debug memory stability issues
- Initialize ECC regions
- Perform silicon measurement and memory performance testing
- Validate SysRAM performance
- Safety testing (only performed by MIUs with an SMMU)
2. 3. 4. 5. 6. The Qual Engine contains pattern generators for addresses, data, byte enables; and configuration registers to specify stride, accesses per activate, request rate, read-write burst length, etc. It integrity-checks returning read data and reports when errors are detected. It has an address-as- data mode, which can be used for address aliasing checks. The Qual Engine has eight interfaces, each providing:
- Read interface (one read per dbbclk)
- Write data interface (32B per dbbclk)
- Read response interface (64B per dbbclk)
- Write ack response interface (one write ack per dbbclk)
The request interfaces connect to Ring 2 of each of the eight client hubs. Three of the hubs have
- Qual Engine as their only client. Qual Engines on these hubs have no access to SMMU
translation. Each response interface connects to one response chain.
##### 3.1.2.2.4 TBUs with Wrapper Logic
- Translation Buffer Units (TBUs) are the Translation Lookaside Buffers of the Arm SMMU-500
(described below). They cache full translations and perform virtual to physical translation on incoming requests. Wrapper logic converts MSS control flags into ACE-Lite controls supported by Arm and implements overrides for many parameters. A bypass path around the TBUs is provided for clients that use physical addressing.
- Multiple TBU instances are used in each MCHub to support the necessary bandwidth. The non-
ordered hubs have four non-ISO TBUs and some have two ISO TBUs. Requests from a given client are distributed over the appropriate set of TBUs using an address-hash-based steering function. The ordered hub has four TBUs of smaller size. Translation requests that miss at a TBU are sent to its attached TCU in the common hub. TLB invalidations are forwarded to the TBUs from the TCUs.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.2.5 Hierarchical Ring Arbiter
In each client hub, arbitration of requests is done in several “rings.” The outermost ring (Ring 2) arbitrates between NISO and Soft ISO traffic/clients. Ring 1 arbitrates between ISO and real-time clients (together with the Ring 2 output). The Ring 1 output is sent to the TBUs. SMMU outputs (including the bypass path) are arbitrated in Ring 0.5. Outputs of the Ring 0.5 are sent to MCF. Ring 2 and Ring 1 are priority tier snap arbiters that provide bandwidth-guarantees using a Digital Differential Analyzer (DDA) mechanism. They also support dynamic masking of arbiter inputs based on the number of outstanding transactions below.
##### 3.1.2.2.6 Hub Throttling Logic
To prevent hubs from issuing requests that exceed response bandwidth, each client hub has a configurable DDA at its output that can throttle the bandwidth of read requests.
##### 3.1.2.2.7 Common Hub
The Common Hub contains hub logic for which there is only one copy. It contains the following major blocks: 1. 2.
- TCUs and NVCaches
- ECC Scrubber
In addition, it contains common logic, including the timestamp counter, used to generate deadlines for client requests, and the aggregator for SMMU/hub interrupts.
##### 3.1.2.2.8 TCU
Each TCU is backed by an instance of NVCache (or NV$), whose purpose is to reduce page-walking traffic to DRAM. A TCU contains: MacroTLB - which is a large backup TLB that backs up the smaller TLBs in the TBU units. The MacroTLB is configured to the maximum possible size (4096 entries, each storing one PTE). Page Table Walk Cache - which caches partial table walks. Page Walk logic - which walks the stage 1- and stage 2-page table structures as needed.
- Each TCU has input buffering to absorb the maximum of 16 requests outstanding from each
TBU connected, stores them internally, and then does the required walks for the requests after arbitration. Each TCU can have up to 32 requests outstanding to NV$/DRAM. The peak rate for TCU hits is one per four clocks and the peak rate for TCU misses is one per five clocks (assuming a simple last-level PTE miss--if complex page walks are required, the rate can be much lower).

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.2.9 NVCache
NVCache (or NV$) is an auxiliary cache that stores arrays of PTEs or PDEs that are fetched to satisfy TCU miss requests. NV$ lines are 64B, which store eight PTEs or PDEs and provides a form of prefetch, unlike TBU and TCU, which cache and request individual PTEs. NV$ is an out of order cache; it can return hits immediately while prior misses are still outstanding. Misses to DRAM are returned in order to TCU.
##### 3.1.2.2.10 ECC Scrubber
ECC protection requires a way of fixing single-bit errors that can accumulate over time before any of them become unrecoverable multi-bit errors. Errors can occur in any portion of memory, which might otherwise be subject to security restrictions. There is a hardware-scrubber unit to meet these needs. Under software control, the scrubber inserts a write request with byte enables off to a designated address into the pipe. RMW logic in the Memory Controller Channel does a read, which corrects the data, followed by a write of the corrected data plus newly computed ECC bits. Scrubber requests use the direct path to the channels, and not the IO-coherent path through SCF.
#### 3.1.2.3 Arm SMMU-500
The SoC uses Arm SMMU-500 IP blocks (TBU and TCU) encapsulated in NVIDIA-designed wrappers. Refer to the System Memory Management Unit chapter of this document for more details.
- Five Translation Cache Units (TCUs) are located in the Common Hub. They handle translation
requests input from the Translation Buffer Units (TBUs) in the client hubs (the Qual Engine hubs do not support SMMU translation). To improve performance, an additional NVIDIA-designed NVCache (NV$), associated with each TCU, caches the eight PTEs (64B) returned from memory each time a TCU miss goes out to memory. Two TCUs, with associated TBUs and NVCaches, form a logical SMMU, serving non-ISO clients on each of the two unordered hub pairs. A dedicated fifth TCU, with associated TBUs and NVCache, serves ISO clients. It is anticipated that both non-ISO TCUs serving a single hub pair have the context registers programmed identically, but TCUs on different hub pairs and the ISO TCU could support disjoint contexts. Invalidations of TLB and cache entries at TCU, TBU, and NVCache are performed by software using register writes to the respective TCU(s). TCUs in turn send invalidation messages to their attached TBUs and they also send bulk invalidation requests to their respective NVCaches (the entire NV$ is invalidated at any TCU invalidation). Invalidations for non-ISO contexts must only be sent to the non-ISO TCUs. This is to prevent non-
- ISO invalidations from affecting ISO performance. Hardware DVM-based invalidations are not
supported to the SMMU, although DVM is used for inter-CPU-cluster page-table invalidations.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
The TCU configuration is 128 contexts for all TCUs (NISO and ISO). This is the largest SMMU-500 configuration supported. Each of the two pairs of NISO TCUs can be independently programmed.
- Note that NISO TCUs 0 and 1 must be programmed identically and NISO TCUs 2 and 3 must be
programmed identically. NISO TCUs 0, 1 may be programmed differently from NISO TCUs 2, 3, as long as each pair of TCUs serves a disjoint set of clients.
#### 3.1.2.4 NVLink Hub (Connection to the iGPU)
- The Ampere iGPU connects to the memory subsystem using eight NCISOC ports. NCISOC is the
on-chip version of the NVLink protocol used to connect GPUs. Each link provides approximately 35 GB/s of raw bandwidth in each direction and approximately 25 GB/sec achievable bandwidth in each direction. GPU requests may be IO coherent. Requests can be 32B, 64B, 96B, 128B, or 256B. If 256B, there can be no byte enables.
- Each NCISOC port connects to the memory subsystem through one of eight NVLink Hubs. NVLink
Hub contains logic to do the following: Convert from NCISOC protocol to the ACE-Lite format used within the memory subsystem. Provide response buffering for GPU responses. Implement barriers to allow hazard-free updates of the protection table.
##### 3.1.2.4.1 Read-Modify-Write (RMW) Transactions
NCISOC supports a RMW command that may be used to implement coherent platform atomics. The read transaction is initiated by the GPU and is conveyed on the NCISOC request interface (REQ virtual channel, RMW command). The response goes back to the imitating unit (GPU L2), which performs the operation, then issues a TRANS_DONE command that conveys the write data to memory. SCF implements the RMW protocol, which requires locking a cache line until TRANS_DONE is received.
#### 3.1.2.5 MSS Clients
The following clients have memory interface(s) in the SoC and connect to the HUBs (excludes dGPU/iGPU/QualEngine).
- AON-DMA
- AON-R5
- APE-DSP
- APE-DMA
- AXIAP (DFD)
- AZA-HDA
- BPMP-DMA

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- BPMP-R5
- DCE-DMA/DCE-R5
Engine with minimal bandwidth requirements that is configured as SISO.
- DLA
- DLA-Falcon
- EQOS
- ETR (DFD)
- Functional Safety Island (FSI)
- An independent, redundant set of processors with onboard memory that is used as a
monitoring and safety processor working beside other SoC engines without requiring an external functional safety processor. It has its own power rail and clocks to be maximally independent of other SoC components.
- This safety processor must meet strict safety requirements, which requires high fault
coverage internally and, also on the external memory interface. The memory subsystem does not meet these metrics. FSI can therefore operate in two modes:
- Safety mode. This is done when accessing the FSI ASIL-D carveout. Both FSI0 and FSI1
ports are used and CRC values are read/written in addition to data. SMMU is bypassed (using StreamID 0x7f).
- Normal mode. This is done when accessing outside the FSI ASIL-D carveout. Only the FSI0
ports are used. CRC values are not used. SMMU is enabled.
- The FSI ports are normal, low-bandwidth non-ISO clients with no special QoS
requirements. They connect to Ring 2, which allows them to be configured as NISO or SISO.
- GPCDMA
- HOST1X
- HWPM_PMA
HWPM_PMA is the write client for the HWPM (hardware performance monitor) unit.
- ISP
- ISP-Falcon
- MGBE
MGBE are multi-gigabit ethernet clients that are configured as SISO.
- NVDISPLAY
The GPU NVDisplay 4.0 client is used, which makes 128B requests in batches of two. In block linear mode, it uses XBAR_RAW. To avoid changes in MSS Hub logic, a disp2dbb shim splits 128B display requests into a pair of 64B requests with AXI_aruser_user_size == 128B, matching the AXI socket protocol used by other clients. This shim then connects to AXICIF, like other MSS clients.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- NVDISPLAY-NISO
- NVDisplay 4.0 contains an NVDISPLAY-NISO client, which is used for configuring display
header frames. NVDISPLAY-NISO issues reads and writes to the memory system for semaphores, notifiers, and push-buffers. NVDISPLAY-NISO has minimal bandwidth requirements.
- NVDEC
- NVENC
- NVJPG
- OFA-DMA
Optical Flow Accelerator (OFA) is a client that is configured as SISO and used independently of NVENC.
- PCIe
- PSC
- PVA
- PVA-Falcon
- QSPI
QSPI has minimal bandwidth requirements and is configured as SISO.
- RCE-DMA
- RCE-R5
- SCE-DMA
- SCE-R5
- SDMMC
- SE
- TSEC
- UFSC
- VI-Falcon
- VI
- VIC
- XUSB-DMA
- XUSB-HOST
#### 3.1.2.6 MCF
MCF is the internal Memory Controller Fabric. MCF contains four MCF slices plus the crossbars that route requests between client hubs and NVLinkHub to the MCF/SCF slices, and to the channels and other memory destinations (SysRAM and Syncpoint registers).

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
#### 3.1.2.7 SCF
The Scalable Coherence Fabric (SCF) contains coherence logic and the SCF cache, as well as the interface to CCPLEX. SCF is part of the CCPLEX cluster and is coupled with MCF and conveys MSS traffic.
#### 3.1.2.8 SysRAM
- SysRAM is an on-chip RAM managed by software, intended to provide memory for boot, power
management, TrustZone (TZ), and interprocessor communication (IPC). SysRAM is potentially usable by other applications as a fast, low-latency, low-power alternative to DRAM. Boot requires an internal RAM to store data used to initialize the chip before DRAM is available. This RAM needs to be directly accessible by the boot processor (the BPMP) and all boot I/O storage devices (for example, Flash controller or USB controller). The boot I/O device transfers encrypted boot data directly to the internal RAM as one of the first steps during boot. The SysRAM characteristics are: A size of 512 KiB. A low access latency for boot speed. Direct access from the I/O clients to SysRAM. During the initial portion of boot, CCPLEX power management needs a protected region in SysRAM. This area can be freed before the completion of boot. To set up this "pre-boot" aperture, the BPMP initializes one of the GSCs to set up an aperture that allows read/write access to only CCPLEX power management.
- The SoC has many CPU cores and auxiliary processors, which have pair-wise communication
requirements. All IPC communication buffers are in DRAM. Post-boot, SysRAM is exclusively used for the MCE GSC (MCE private code and workspace). SysRAM has its own aperture in physical address space, distinct from the DRAM aperture, and is available to all DRAM memory clients. Initialization is done by a dedicated state machine, which is started by writing to a trigger register. Any accesses that occur before initialization is complete are back-pressured (no SysRAM requests are dropped). Software is responsible for allocating SysRAM for each use case.
##### 3.1.2.8.1 Bandwidth
The maximum SysRAM bandwidth is 32B per SCF clock for each of the two instances, or up to 64.2 GB/s aggregate (SCF clock = EMC clock with a max of 1066 MHz). Most SysRAM clients use a small fraction of the maximum bandwidth so their requirements are easily met. The most important aspect of bandwidth is the interaction of SysRAM and DRAM accesses and the effects on DRAM bandwidth and ISO N% values. If SysRAM is oversubscribed, HOL blocking can occur, limiting DRAM

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
bandwidth. SysRAM bandwidth must be limited to 13 GB/sec or about 10% of DRAM bandwidth to prevent HOL blocking DRAM.
#### 3.1.2.9 SyncPoint Interface
- The SyncPoint Interface or Side Band Shim (SBS) presents a memory-mapped aperture to MSS
clients, converting reads and writes to this aperture to syncpoint operations at Host1x. The SyncPoint interface converts read requests to SyncPoint reads and write requests to SyncPoint INCR operations at Host1x. For SyncPoint reads of any size, Host1x returns a 32b read response of SyncPoint value. MSS replicates these 32b to the width of the read response and returns the replicated value back to the client. For writes to the SyncPoint aperture, the data payload of the request does not matter, and is not passed from MSS logic to Host1x. There are no restrictions on the size of reads or write requests. Any sized read or write request to the aperture results in a request to Host1x. SyncPoint writes with zero byte enables are ignored. Each of the 1K SyncPoints has a 64 KiB address range assigned to it in the SyncPoint aperture, so that each may be controlled by a 64 KiB hypervisor page-table entry. The SyncPoint aperture is 64MB long and starts at a 64MB aligned base address. In other words, PA[25:16] of the address is used as the SyncPoint index.
- The SyncPoint interface does not have any additional security mechanisms other than normal
page-table protections provided by the SMMU or/and GMMU. SyncPoint requests are expected to be MMU-translated in the same manner as other requests to MSS.
#### 3.1.2.10 Memory Controller (DRAM) Channels
- The SoC has 16 Memory Controller channels, each controlling a x16 LPDDR5 channel, together
implementing a 256-bit DRAM I/O interface. The channel logic is divided into four sections. CIFLL, WCAM, and Row Sorter represent the “MC” portion, while the final section is EMC and contains DRAM control, ECC, and Encryption logic.
##### 3.1.2.10.1 CIFLL
- CIFLL is the interface unit between MCF and the row sorter. It includes input FIFOs, async
crossings, DRBC conversion, encryption key ID lookup, stat range comparison, and Ring 0x/Ring 0, which implement the final ring arbitration.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.10.2 WCAM
WCAM is the point of global visibility for the memory subsystem. Write requests are acknowledged at WCAM, even though the writes may not be committed to DRAM until later. WCAM tracks pending writes so it can apply them to subsequent reads to the same address. WCAM stores the write data for writes that are being arbitrated. It has associative lookup logic to locate in-flight write data associated with any read that is scheduled. WCAM also implements the read-modify- write required for ECC and Encryption.
##### 3.1.2.10.3 Row Sorter/Arbiter
- The row sorter/arbiter takes a stream of requests from WCAM in bank queues and produces a
DRAM-efficient and latency-sensitive stream of activate, read, write, and out of order per-bank refresh commands. The MC row sorter also handles All-Bank-Refresh, Refresh Management for Row Hammer (RFM) and power-down-modes (ACPD and DSR). Periodic calibrations are also now in the mcclk domain with an ownership arbiter that decides between periodic calibration commands and normal row sorter arbitration.
##### 3.1.2.10.4 EMC
EMC maps the stream of activate, read, write, and refresh commands from the Row Sorter into actual DRAM commands. In addition, it handles maintenance operations such as power-down and periodic training. It also contains the decryption and ECC blocks for response data.
#### 3.1.2.11 Addressing
##### 3.1.2.11.1 40 (39)-bit Virtual Addressing
SoC clients provide 40 bits of address at the AXI interface. Bit 39 is used to indicate conversion between TEGRA_RAW and XBAR_RAW block linear sector ordering. Therefore, a 39-bit virtual address space is supported. The Arm SMMU supports a 49-bit input virtual address. The top 10 SMMU virtual address input bits are driven to zero in the SMMU wrapper. If all 39 virtual address bits are used, the page table can be three levels deep, making worst-case TLB misses expensive (and bad for ISO). To reduce the overhead of page table walks, software only instantiates the number of levels needed for the maximum VA allocation for the context. In many cases, this should be under 1 GB (30 bits), which requires only a two-level table. 1 level 2 MB (2 ^ (12 + 9)) 21 bits 2 level 1 GB (2 ^ (12 + 2 * 9)) 30 bits 3 level 512 GB (2 ^ (12 + 3 * 9)) 39 bits

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.11.2 128GB Maximum DRAM Size
A maximum attached DRAM size of 128GB is supported. Since the 0-2GB physical address range is dedicated to MMIO, DRAM starts at 2GB, so the physical address range for DRAM is from 2GB to 130GB. Additional details:
- Because the GPU has only 37 physical address bits available (0-128GB range), GPU can only
access 126GB of DRAM. In 128GB DRAM configs, it is recommended that software place carveouts and service buffers that do not need access by GPU in the 128-130GB physical address range.
- When ECC is enabled, the maximum addressable DRAM size is 112GB, since 1/8 of memory is
dedicated to ECC storage. In this configuration, GPU can access all available DRAM. 128-bit DRAM configurations are limited to 64GB (56GB when ECC is enabled).
##### 3.1.2.11.3 StreamID Specification of Context and Virtual Machine ID
- The Arm SMMU uses a StreamID field, associated with each request, to specify which Address
Space ID (ASID) and associated context, and which Virtual Machine ID (VMID) to use. The StreamID field at the client interface is 8-bits wide. Only 128 StreamIDs are supported, so StreamID[7] is ignored. StreamID is programmed into client registers by the hypervisor (or by boot code in non-hypervisor systems) and conveyed to MSS over the client’s AXI interface. MSS additionally provides a per- client pair of registers that can be programmed to override the client-provided StreamID value with a value from the registers. The main intention for these registers is to provide StreamID values for clients with no internal support for StreamID. The OVERRIDE_ADD mode enables the display client to output a window ID field on the StreamID interface and have that added to the base StreamID value in the StreamID override register, so that each display window is effectively a separate virtual client.
#### 3.1.2.12 Address-based Steering
##### 3.1.2.12.1 DRAM Channel Steering
- Steering of requests to logical DRAM channels is determined by the
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_* registers. The following equation determines the logical
channel: logical_chan[3:0] = chan[3:0] & (num_channels-1), where chan[0] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_0_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9]) chan[1] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_1_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9]) chan[2] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_2_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9])

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
chan[3] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_3_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[31:9]&addr[31:9]) 512B versus 1 KiB interleave is determined as follows: interleave_512B = EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_0_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9] |
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_1_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9] |
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_2_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9] |
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_3_EMEM_CHANNEL_MASK[9];
The recommended settings of the registers are the following:
- Channels
- Interleave
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_MASK_* registers
512B
- MASK_0: 32’b 0010 0111 1010 1111 0101 001x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 0101 0110 0011 1100 1010 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0011 1111 0010 0110 0100 100x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_3: 32’b 1110 0010 0100 0100 0011 000x xxxx
xxxx 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 0010 0111 1010 1111 0100 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 0101 0110 0011 1100 1010 100x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0011 1111 0010 0110 0101 000x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_3: 32’b 1110 0010 0100 0100 0010 000x xxxx
xxxx 8,4 512B
- MASK_0: 32’b 1011 1001 0100 1111 0101 001x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 1100 1010 1110 0100 1010 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0010 1110 0111 0110 0100 100x xxxx
xxxx 8,4 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 1011 1001 0100 1111 0100 010x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 1100 1010 1110 0100 1010 100x xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 0010 1110 0111 0110 0101 000x xxxx
xxxx For there to be no aliasing of memory addresses (that is, two physical addresses mapping to the same DRAM location), the mask bits that correspond to the channel bits in the physical address must allow all channels to be selected. Normally this is done by having a unique chan_base bit set in each mask register. For simplicity in the reverse mapping, we require this for legal settings of the mask registers. For best performance, the channel mask registers should be programmed with optimized settings given above.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.12.2 DRAM Bank Steering
- Steering of requests to DRAM banks (within a device within a channel) is determined by the
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_{0,1,2,3} registers. The following equation determines the
bank: bank[0] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_0_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) bank[1] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_1_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) bank[2] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_2_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) bank[3] = ^(EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_3_EMEM_BANK_MASK[31:10] & xaddr[31:10]) The variable xaddr is the physical address with the channel bits right-shifted out as follows: 4-channel mode: xaddr[31:10] = (addr[33:12] >> 2) 8-channel mode: xaddr[31:10] = (addr[34:13] >> 3) 16-channel mode: xaddr[31:10] = (addr[35:14] >> 4) Note that in a 16-bank LPDDR5 systems with four bank groups, bank[3:2] select the bank group and bank[1:0] select the bank within bank group. The recommended settings of the registers are the following: 8 banks
- Channels
- Interleave
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_* registers
4, 8, 16 512B, 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 0101 1100 1010 0111 1000 01xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 1110 0101 0111 0010 0100 10xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 1001 0111 0011 1011 1011 00xx xxxx
xxxx
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_0=0x5CA78400
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_1=0xE5724800
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_2=0x973BB000
16 banks
- Channels
- Interleave
- EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_* registers
4, 8, 16 512B, 1 KiB
- MASK_0: 32’b 1011 0101 0111 1010 1111 10xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 0101 1111 1010 1101 1010 01xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 1101 0001 1001 1110 0110 00xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_3: 32’b 1111 0010 0110 1011 0001 00xx xxxx
xxxx

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_0=0xB57AF800
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_1=0x5FADA400
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_2=0xD19E3000
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_3=0xF26B1000
For there to be no aliasing of memory addresses (that is, two physical addresses mapping to the same DRAM location), the mask bits that correspond to the bank bits in the physical address must allow all banks to be selected. Normally this is done by having a unique bank bit set in each mask register. For simplicity in the reverse mapping, we require this for legal settings of the mask registers. For best performance, program the channel mask registers with the optimized settings given above.
##### 3.1.2.12.3 iGPU NVLink Steering
Incoming iGPU requests are steered to one of the iGPU NVLink interfaces based upon an address hash determined by the GPU. The nominal interleave is 256B. Responses are routed to the NVLink interface that originated the request.
#### 3.1.2.13 Virtual Channels
Virtual channels allow independence and differentiated quality of service (QoS) for multiple logical streams that share a common physical channel.
##### 3.1.2.13.1 Virtual Channels for Quality of Service
The SoC has a robust mechanism to provide QoS to the different traffic classes. The major traffic classes are described below:
- Isochronous (ISO). Clients have fixed latency requirements and specified bandwidth that is
provided within a time horizon of hundreds of nsec (display and camera). Bandwidth disruptions for system events like DVFS and system training are provisioned for with appropriate buffering. Data is needed in the required time or pixels are dropped.
- Soft ISO (SISO). Clients have fixed bandwidth requirements within a time horizon of
milliseconds. Stalls are allowed within this time period so long as the specified bandwidth is provided for a specified minimum fraction of each period (for example, NVDEC, NVENC, and PVA). Processing for a frame must be completed within the frame time or frame is dropped. Non-ISO (NISO). Best-effort service. Faster is better, but there is no hard deadline and no guarantees.
- Low-latency (LL). Client performance depends on lowest possible latency (for example,CPU
reads).
- Low-latency SISO (SISO_LL). This is used for NISO page-table misses and Cortex-A9 CPU
reads. The requests are SISO, but latency is critical to meet the clients’ performance

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
requirements. SISO_LL is a hybrid: SISO_LL requests travel on the ISO VC from hubs through MCF but split into their own VC in the channel.
- The ISO and SISO virtual channels are “provisioned,” meaning that under normal conditions
requests launched into the virtual channel proceed to the memory channel (or final destination) without backpressure, thus should traverse the MSS pipeline with relatively low latency. The NISO virtual channel is “unprovisioned” meaning that when DRAM (or final destination) is oversubscribed, requests can back up and fill the virtual channel. The latency under these conditions can be high— it is a function of the load issued by all the clients. Thus, in a case in which clients may saturate DRAM, the NISO virtual channel is only suited to “best effort” service. The ISO virtual channel is special in that all interactions with the other virtual channels and other uncontrolled sources of stalls are avoided so that latency is predictable. Ring 1 and Ring 2 DDA settings are used to prioritize ISO over other VCs and SISO over NISO above the TBUs. There are dedicated ISO SMMU TBUs to prevent SMMU slowdowns from other VCs from affecting ISO. VCs are provided from clients, through hubs, MCF, and SCF to Ring 0 at each Memory Controller Channel. The Ring 0 arbiter arbitrates between the head of each VC as it selects requests for the row sorter. At that point, row sorter priorities and deadlines determine which order requests are satisfied.
##### 3.1.2.13.2 Virtual Channels to Prevent Deadlock
Two additional virtual channels are needed to remove dependencies between streams of requests that can cause deadlock:
- TRANS_DONE to convey the RMW completion signal from GPU L2 to SCF. Without this
additional virtual channel, the TRANS_DONE command could be blocked behind a request waiting for the RMW to complete, causing deadlock. The four main virtual channels (NISO, SISO, ISO, CPU_LL), are conveyed to the DRAM channels, where they get resolved. This is done in a dual-level ring structure: Ring 0x followed by Ring 0.
#### 3.1.2.14 Arbitration, Throttling, and Deadlines
Arbitration, throttling, and deadlines are used to improve QoS for clients. The goals are to:
- Provide clients with required bandwidth
- Improve utilization by preventing congestion
- Reduce client latency and limit latency outliers

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.14.1 Priority Tier Snap Arbiter (PTSA/DDAs)
DRAM utilization can vary depending on the characteristics of the request stream and can pause for periodic training, refresh, etc. Certain clients and traffic streams have bandwidth requirements that the system must satisfy despite the variable DRAM utilization. Bandwidth guarantee logic at the snap arbiter inputs is included. The bandwidth guarantee logic uses a DDA mechanism along with dynamic masking of the inputs to the snap arbiter. For each input at any snap arbiter ring, provide the following control, state, and I/O. Note that signed (two's complement) fixed-point arithmetic is used for the bandwidth calculations, using N integer bits (including sign) and F fraction bits. For this SoC, the values are N=11 and F=12.
- Name
- Control, state, I/O
- Fixed pt format
(#int bits. #frac bits)
- Description
request input -
- Request is present at the arbiter input
grant input -
- Request was granted last cycle
high_priority output -
- Request grants are behind the
guaranteed rate rate control 0.F
- Amount to increment accum every
clock. accum state N.F
- Accumulates number of grants “owed” to
this arbiter input; a negative value indicates that the input has had more grants than its guarantee max control N.0
- Maximum value of accum allowed
min control N.0
- Minimum value of accum allowed
(normally negative) grant_decrement global control 1.F
- Amount to subtract from accum every
clock that a grant occurs. This is a global config value that is used for all DDAs. Each clock cycle, the following computation is done for each snap arbiter input: high_priority = (accum >= 0.0); accum = accum + rate; if (grant) accum = accum – grant_decrement; if (accum > max) accum = max; if (accum < min) accum = min; If any snap arbiter input has a non-zero value for (high_priority and request), that is if high priority and at least one of its slots has a valid request, then we AND the snap arbiter request inputs with a mask where the mask value is the input’s high_priority signal (the input’s high_priority is used as a mask for all the input’s requests). If no input has a non-zero value for (high_priority and request),

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
then there is no masking of the snap arbiter inputs. Thus, any inputs that are “behind” are handled in the next snap arbiter round while inputs that are not behind are excluded. DDAs are provided on the Ring 2 and Ring 1 snap arbiter rings in the client hubs, within SCF at merge points between CPU and DMA traffic, and Ring 0 and Ring 0x in the Memory Controller Channels.
- Frequency versus Use-case Programming of Registers
Software usually requires that a given register must be owned by a single driver. The clocks driver is responsible for registers that depend on frequency and the client/ISO manager drivers are responsible for registers that depend on use case. Therefore, display and other ISO clients whose bandwidth demands are constant regardless of clock frequency, rate, minimum, and maximum, are programmed by the display driver.
- Display and other ISO client DDA rates are typically programmed to provide the appropriate
bandwidth for a given use case at maximum mcclk/emcclk/scfclk with grant_decrement = 1 at this maximum frequency. At lower clock frequencies, rather than increasing each input’s rate parameter (which would require control of the rate registers by multiple drivers), the clocks driver changes the global grant_decrement value instead. Clients whose bandwidth should scale down at lower clock frequencies (such as CPU) have their rate programmed by the clocks driver as well, so it scales down with frequency. In general, a given client is categorized either as a use-case- dependent client or a frequency-dependent client, which dictates whether the client driver or clocks driver owns the client’s DDA register. The grant_decrement register is shadowed so it can be automatically updated when a frequency change occurs. For example, the CPU’s rate needs to scale down with EMCCLK so it does not overwhelm the available bandwidth.
##### 3.1.2.14.2 Request Throttling
Throttling of requests is an important way to prevent congestion and saturation by low priority requests. For regions of the design in which there are no VCs (for example the output Ring 1), local throttling is used to prevent low priority VCs from head-of-line blocking high-priority VCs.
- Hub Partition Client Bandwidth Throttling
This limits the bandwidth consumed by a single partition client. A bandwidth throttle is provided at each partition client, which operates similarly to the DDAs at the ring arbiters that guarantee bandwidth, only these throttles cap bandwidth. Each clock cycle, an accumulator is incremented by a client-specific rate increment that corresponds to a 64 byte transfer. Simultaneously, if the partition client receives a grant from the ring arbiter, the accumulator is decremented by a globally configured grant decrement value. Requests from a partition client to the arbiter are masked if the accumulator value is negative.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
Since a client will not receive any further grants once its request is masked, the lowest possible value for the accumulator is the grant decrement value.
- Hub Output Throttling to Prevent Response Path Backpressure
The response paths from MCF to the client hubs have limited bandwidth – less than full DRAM bandwidth. Arbitration inefficiencies at the MCF output response crossbar can further reduce bandwidth on each of these paths to about 90% of the theoretical response bandwidth. If 1) clients make large requests or, 2) if the input request crossbar selects requests from a hub that exceed the response bandwidth to that hub, persistent backups can occur at the output response crossbar through the MCF/SCF response pipeline, all the way back to the channels. Since the response paths have no virtual channels, priority responses (e.g., ISO SMMU page-table-misses) can be trapped and delayed. Also, if the input request crossbar chooses requests from a hub at a higher rate than the responses can be delivered, the backpressure reduces the rate the row sorters can schedule requests, reducing DRAM bandwidth.
- Ring 0/Ring 0x Throttling
- Ring 0 and Ring 0x have DDAs at each input, which provides bandwidth control under most
circumstances. The input request stream at Ring 0 additionally needs throttling to prevent the row sorter from filling with low priority requests (which could head-of-line block high-priority ISO requests) and to prevent CPU requests, which normally get high priority, from starving SISO and NISO.
##### 3.1.2.14.3 Latency Allowance and Deadlines
The Memory Subsystem supports clients with different latency requirements. The architecture achieves this by calculating a deadline for each request as it enters the memory subsystem and then prioritizing requests that reach their deadline and have not been serviced. When all requests are within their deadline, the arbiter grants requests to maximize efficiency (Efficiency Arbitration Mode). If any request(s) have reached their deadline, the arbiter operates in Latency Arbitration Mode, giving high priority to the expired request(s). For a variety of reasons, an expired request may not be able to be granted immediately. Here are several definitions that are useful in the explanations: Expiration Time. The time between a request reaching its deadline and the time it is granted by the arbiter. Latency Tolerance. The latency a client can tolerate while running at its design bandwidth. This may be governed by a) the size of internal latency buffers within the client or b) the size of the client’s MCCIF response buffer (which needs to be large enough to store all the client’s requests outstanding in the memory controller). The latency allowance should be less than the Latency Tolerance, minus the expected Expiration Time and minus pipeline latencies not accounted for in the latency allowance, to avoid stalling the client.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Bandwidth-disruption time. The time service at a channel may be disrupted for infrequent
events, such as frequency changes, periodic training, ZQ Calibration, and so forth.
- Deadline Computation
When a request is stored in the partition client (PC) FIFO, a deadline is computed for it. The deadline is computed by adding the latency allowance (LA) of the issuing client to the current timestamp. The LA is programmable on a per-client basis. Slack is defined as:
- Slack = Deadline – Timestamp
Negative slack means the request has been pending in the Row Sorter for longer than its latency allowance and should receive latency-mode arbitration. Modular arithmetic is used to handle timestamp wraparound. To decouple the concept of time in the Row Sorter from the clock period of the MCCLK, the units of deadlines, LAs, timestamps, and slack are all stored in units of ticks. A tick is the wall-clock granularity; nominally 30ns. There are configuration variables to tell the TIMER unit how to translate MCCLK cycles into the appropriate timestamp increments for the current clock- frequency.
- Determining the Latency Allowance
NVIDIA determines the latency allowance setting for each client. These values are programmed into registers that determine the deadline for client requests. In many cases, the latency allowance is statically programmed. In some cases, it must be dynamically programmed based on client bandwidth and/or memory clock frequencies. When latency allowance is exceeded, the request expires. Requests are expected to be granted within the expiration time. Thus, the latency expected a given request to achieve is given by: target_latency = latency_allowance + expiration_time + static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter This target_latency should match expected_latency in the following Little’s Law equation: latency_buffer_size = design_bandwidth * expected_latency Combining the equations, setting expected_latency = target_latency and latency_buffer_size = mccif_size, design_bandwidth = client_bandwidth, and solving for latency_allowance, results in the following: latency_allowance = mccif_size / client_bandwidth
- static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter
- expiration_time
The following table shows the terms in static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Table 3.1 Terms in static_latency_from_snap_arbiter_to_row_sorter
- Static latency AXI to TBU input
scfclk
- Static latency from WCAM to RespXbar
mcclk
- Static Latency from RespXbar to client
197.2 scfclk Expiration time is the time between a request expiring and being serviced under normal conditions while the DRAMs are active. This includes the tick granularity, time to finish processing another active list, time to switch from a different direction or rank, precharge, and activate time, and so on. There is also additional time to service one other request that may have expired at the same time (more than this is relegated to bandwidth disruption time). The following table provides the expiration time calculation for LPDDR5.
- Table 3.2 Expiration Time Calculation
- Parameter
- LPDDR5
ns dramclks
- RCD
7 txns
- W2P
turn Penalty (hidden behind w2p)
- RCD
- TA catchup
- RAS
- Total
Different latency allowance rubrics are used for: 1. 2. 3. 4. bandwidth-soak read clients low-latency CPU read clients
- ISO read clients (i.e., display)
write clients The rules are programmed by the NVIDIA driver based in information provided from an API.
- Latency Allowance for Bandwidth-Soak Read Clients

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
Bandwidth soak clients use the above equation and assume that client_bandwidth is 85% of the peak_dram_bw. The LA for NISO read clients at peak dramclk frequency is 41 tickets; for SISO clients it is 37 tickets.
- Note that client_bandwidth, unloaded_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter, and
expiration_time are all functions of clock frequency. For highest accuracy, perform this calculation for each set of operating frequencies. However, since the frequency-dependent terms are roughly inversely proportional to dramcclk frequency and, assuming the various clock frequencies in the MSS pipeline roughly scale with each other, the latency allowance is estimated at a given frequency by: latency_allowance = target_latency_allowance (at base_freq)
- (base_freq / emcclk_freq)
At low frequencies, the latency allowance can be larger than the maximum value allowed by the register field and so capped at this maximum value (255 ticks, where a tick is 30 nsec). Since latency_allowance for bandwidth soak clients depends on frequency, the values must be updated when a frequency change occurs. The proper values are programmed by emc_reg_calc.h. Note that this equation does not take into account large latency disruptions caused by infrequent events (also called bandwidth disruption events).
- Latency Allowance for CPU Read Clients
Because CPU reads are latency-critical, the latency allowance needs to be short. The default is 4 ticks (120 ns), but the high-priority CPU request feature can drop it to 0 ticks for designated requests.
- Latency Allowance for ISO Read (i.e., display) Clients
Display clients differ in several significant ways from the non-ISO clients: 1.
- Non-ISO clients can tolerate occasional bandwidth disruptions or excess-latency events;
average throughput is what matters. Display clients can tolerate occasional bandwidth disruptions as long as there is enough data prefetched and buffered in the mempool to tolerate the bandwidth disruption; display clients must not underflow.
- Display’s internal latency tolerance is limited only by the number of queued up read
responses in its internal mempool buffer. The memfetch unit and display itself independently track progress through the frame. Memfetch greedily requests all the pixels required for a frame, subject only to back-pressure from MSS and isohub clock. The datapath portion of display reads pixels from the response buffer in raster order at the required rate. There is no internal buffer connecting memfetch and display proper that limits display’s latency tolerance. 2. Display’s internal mempool is used to tolerate: Total latency, which includes display internal latency, MSS static latencies + drain time of a saturated row sorter
- Bandwidth disruption events

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- DVFS events
- Blocklinear SMMU miss period buffering
- Fetch amortized buffering
Display’s MCCIF buffer is used to tolerate static latencies and all the usual dynamic latencies incurred during steady state operation of the memory subsystem (notably not bandwidth disruption or DVFS events). The considerations for determine display latency allowance are complex and are encapsulated in NVIDIA software.
- Latency Allowance for Write Clients
Because of the WCAM, the latency allowance for write clients is greatly simplified which required quick scheduling of writes so that write acknowledges could be returned. Once a request has passed the WCAM, even for a low-latency client like CPU, the contents of the write are globally visible. The scheduling of the write can be done to facilitate DRAM efficiency without direct impact on the client. It is desirable to have a high latency allowance for writes, so the row sorter has flexibility in when to schedule writes and there is time for multiple write requests to the same page to arrive and be processed together. The disadvantage to a long latency allowance for writes is that a large fraction of the row sorter may be tied up with writes and unavailable for buffering reads so that reads can be done efficiently. The latency allowance equation for writes is: latency allowance (emcclk) = min(255, 128*(1066 MHz/emcclk)) The deadline determined at the hub is ignored and all write requests are re-deadlined with LA
- MC_LATENCY_ALLOWANCE_CIFLL_WR_0 (0x3ff) at the channel. Direct turn arbitration generally
determines when writes are scheduled. Write scheduling is determined by direction turn arbitration, not deadline expiration. The large LA of 1023 ticks ensures that writes do not remain in the row sorter for an excessive time.
#### 3.1.2.15 Logical Transaction Pipeline
Requests enter and pass through the memory system in a logical pipeline and are distributed over memory-system components. These requests can spend differing amounts of time, may be steered to different paths, and potentially may be reordered. Client attributes may be modified at certain stages. The following table lists the stages in the logical pipeline for SoC clients. NVLink requests merge into the pipeline at the input request XBar in MCF and share the remainder of this pipeline. Two paths to DRAM memory are available: the non-coherent path, and the path through SCF which supports I/O coherence. Requests to SCF may (or may not) snoop the CPU caches
- Table 3.3 Logical Transaction Pipeline
- Location
- Operation
- Controlling Register(s)
- Effect

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Client
- Interface
- Receive
transaction
- AXICIF
- MemType
override <C>_MEMTYPE_OVERRIDE
- SO_DEV=(AxCache==0bxx0x), may be overridden
based on register setting.
- AXICIF
- HubID
determination <MC>_HUB_MASK <C>_NORMAL_HUBID_OVERR
- IDE
<C>_NORMAL_HUBID <C>_SODEV_HUBID
- Determine HubID using address-based hash or
override value.
- PCFIFO
- PCFIFO
interlock
- PCFIFO_<C>_ORDERED_CLIE
- NT
- Conditionally stalls transactions until conflicting prior
transactions have completed.
- PCFIFO
- Large read
request coalescing
- MC_COALESCE_CTRL_0
- MC_CLIENT_COALESCE_CON
- FIG_*
<C>_COALESCER_ENABLED
- Whether to coalesce identified sequences of 64B read
requests into large read requests.
- Ring 1/Ring
- Virtual channel
determination <C>_TRAFFIC_TYPE_CONFIG
- Identify client as ISO, SISO, NISO
- TBU
- Wrapper
- AXI ID override
<C>_AXI_ID_OVERRIDE
- Conditionally overrides AXI ID
- TBU
- Wrapper
- NS, STREAMID
override <C>_NS_OVERRIDE <C>_STREAMID_OVEERIDE
- Conditionally overrides NS flag and Stream ID
- TBU
- Wrapper
- TBU steering
control
- SMMU_BYPASS_CTRL
<C>_TBU_MASK <C>_NORMAL_TBUID _OVERRIDE <C>_NORMAL_TBUID <C>_SO_DEV_TBUID
- Determine TBU ID (or TBU bypass)
- TBU
- Wrapper
- SMMU steering
control
- SMMU_CLIENT_STEERING_CT
- RL
<C>_SMMU_STEERING_CTRL
- Select between ISO and NISO SMMU
- TBU
- Wrapper
- Translation to
- ACE-Lite
- AXI fields and per-translation flags mapped to ACE-
Lite fields (AxCACHE, AxDOMAIN).
- AxDOMAIN forced to System Shareable (0b11) for
SO_DEV requests per AMBA specification.
- TBU
- Wrapper
- Preserve
- SO_DEV
through SMMU
- MC_TBU_TRANSACTION_ATT
R_CTRL
- TBU_SO_DEV_ATTR_PRESERV
E
- Whether to preserve upstream SO_DEV attribute
through SMMU (default) or reset it based on AxDomain in PTE.
- TBU
- Translation
- TBU page table entries and/or
internal registers
- Addresses transformed from virtual to physical. PTE
values determine or modify various transaction attributes.
- Request
- Coloring
- Block (RCB)
- Barrier
processing
- Consumes barrier request from TBU, sets CNTR_ID
attribute, tracks transactions by color, provides barrier response to TBU.
- Client Hub
- AXI to MCF
command mapping Map AXI to MCF commands.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Client Hub
- Coherent
steering and snoop control <C>_COH_PATH_OVERRIDE_
- NORMAL
<C>_COH_PATH_OVERRIDE_S O_DEV order_id
- SCF routing decision and conditional override of snoop
bit.
- Client Hub
- Order ID and
sequence_num generation
- MC_CLIENT_ORDER_ID
<C>_ORDER_ID
- Select order_id for ordered write clients and attach
sequence_num for ordered streams
- MCF
- Slice
determination
- CHANNEL_MASK_*
Map transaction to one of four MCF/SCF slices.
- SecChk
- Error checks
E.g., EMEM_BOM,
- EMEM_SIZE, SYSRAM_BOM,
- SYSRAM_TOM, GSC and VPR
checks, etc.
- Various error checks NISO_REMOTE requests that
DECERR map to NISO VC.
- Coherent
path
- SCF
- SNOC / URT
interlock
- Various
- Enforces ordering for ordered threads and same-
address ordering.
- SCF
- Coherence
fabric
- Various
- Requests with dependencies (on snoops or pending
transactions) may be stalled. Transactions may be merged or satisfied by SCF cache according to transaction rules.
- SCF
- Channel
determination
- SCF version of
- CHANNEL_ENABLE,
- CHANNEL_MASK_*
- SCF has its own copy of these registers for requests
originated from CCPLEX.
- Memory
- Destination
(DRAM,
- SysRAM,
- SyncPoint)
- Completion
- Various
- Transactions are completed according to Memory
- Destination ordering rules. ECC and/or encryption may
be applied.
- SCF
- Read response
reordering
- Various
- Responses to different addresses may be reordered by
the coherence fabric.
- SCF
- WrAck
reordering
- ORDER_ID_*
- WrAcks for ordered clients are processed in full or
partial order at URT. WrAcks may be reordered after URT.
- MCCIF
- Response
reordering Responses are returned to SoC clients in order.
- Noncoher
ent (direct) path
- MCF
- Channel
determination
- CHANNEL_ENABLE,
- CHANNEL_MASK_*
- Determine channel
- Memory
- Destination
(SCF cache,
- DRAM,
- SysRAM,
+SyncPoint)
- Completion
- Various
- Transactions are completed according to Memory
- Destination ordering rules. ECC and/or encryption may
be applied.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- MCCIF
- Response
reordering Responses are returned to SoC clients in order.
#### 3.1.2.16 Transaction Ordering
Clients differ in their ordering and bandwidth requirements. The AXI interface provided at the client/MC boundary provides a general framework for expressing ordering. Some clients are not equipped to express their ordering requirements using AXI, so configuration registers are provided to specify ordering behavior for these clients.
##### 3.1.2.16.1 Normal MSS Clients
The DMA fabric treats all clients except NVLink and PCI ordered clients as normal clients. Normal MSS clients use the AXI ordering model for Normal memory by default. MSS provides the following ordering guarantees to each normal MSS client. 1.
- Read responses are returned in the same order that requests were received at the input to
the DMA fabric regardless of the AXIID, even though AXI only requires this for requests using the same AXIID. a.
- Reads can get data from younger writes since AXI places no ordering dependencies
between reads and writes. 2. Write acknowledges are returned in the same order that the writes were received at the input to the DMA fabric regardless of the AXIID. a.
- Writes can be completed in any order by the DMA fabric, but the write acknowledges
always return in order even though AXI only requires this for requests using the same AXIID. WrAck guarantees that all previous writes are globally visible.
##### 3.1.2.16.2 PCI Ordered Clients
For PCI-ordered clients such as PCIe, XUSB, and AZA_HDA, each IP is responsible for all PCI ordering requirements except for write after write (WAW) ordering. WAW ordering for these clients is the responsibility of both the client and the DMA fabric. MSS clients are not allowed to send a mixture of SO/DEV requests and Normal requests. The DMA fabric does not provide read after read ordering for any clients. SO/DEV reads requests are treated as Normal non-cacheable reads.
##### 3.1.2.16.3 High Bandwidth PCI Ordered Clients
High-bandwidth PCI-ordered writes use the SCF-interlock. The ordering interlock is implemented in SCF’s SNOC – a point where latencies are shortest since all interlock latencies are within one module. It directs full ordered bandwidth to one slice at a time. Each slice is provided with elasticity above and below the interlock to provide smooth bandwidth above and below the interlock.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
To use the high-bandwidth ordered architecture, client and software configuration must do the following: Client must connect to the ordered hub. If native AXI client: Client uses Device memory type. Client sets AXI ID to a constant value (e.g., 0). If legacy MCCIF client: Set AXI_ID_OVERRIDE to CGID_ZERO. All clients: Use MEMTYPE_OVERRIDE to force the MemType to Device. Set SO_DEV_HUBID to the appropriate value for the client. Set SO_DEV_TBUID to the appropriate value for the client. Disable the PCFIFO interlock for the client by programming the client-specific field in the MC_PCFIFO_CLIENT_CONFIG* register to UNORDERED. Set TRAFFIC_TYPE_CONFIG to NISO. Set ORDER_ID to one of ORD_1, ORD_2, or ORD_3. MSS hub configuration should steer requests to SCF. Requests are directed to an MCF slice using an address-based hash.
##### 3.1.2.16.4 Low Bandwidth PCI Ordered Clients
Low-bandwidth PCI ordered clients can use any client hub. They use the PCFIFO interlock during boot and use the high-bandwidth interlock afterwards. Client and software configurations must do the following:
- Client normally connects to the ordered hub but may connect to an unordered hub (for
example, if client requires ordering during boot but not during normal operation) If native AXI client: Client uses Device memory type. Client sets set AXI ID to a constant value (e.g., 0). If legacy MCCIF client: Set AXI_ID_OVERRIDE to CGID_ZERO. All clients: Use MEMTYPE_OVERRIDE to force the MemType to Device. Set SO_DEV_HUBID to the appropriate value for the client.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
Set SO_DEV_TBUID to the appropriate value for the client.
- Enable the PCFIFO interlock for the client by programming the client-specific field in the
MC_PCFIFO_CLIENT_CONFIG* register to ORDERED.
- TRAFFIC_TYPE_CONFIG may be programmed to NISO
- Set ORDER_ID to ORD_0 in the MC_CLIENT_ORDER_ID* register
Requests are directed to an MCF slice using an address-based hash.
- Requests can be routed through either the SCF or the MCF bypass path, using one of the
methods of specifying snooping/coherent routing. Ordered clients that need fast ordered writes must use the SCF path. Any client that consumes a buffer generated by an ordered client that wrote through SCF and depends on the ordering behavior must also use the SCF path.
#### 3.1.2.17 Error Checking and Reporting
There are multiple classes of errors that are detected by the system, as shown below. Containable means unrelated parts of the system may continue running while the affected client or subsystem is reset. The remaining columns describe what is done to the offending transaction, how the error is reported to the system, and how it is reported to the client.
- Table 3.4 Error Types and Responses
- Error type
- Where detected?
- Containa
ble
- Effect on
transaction
- Report to system
- Report to client
- Security check
failure
- Security check
blocks in MCF and
- SCF
- No
- DECERR bit set in
request.
- MCF: Log and
optional interrupt.
- SCF: Optional log and
interrupt (prefetcher can fetch out of range)
- Note: requests
arriving with DECERR from SMMU are not reported as failures at MCF.
- DECERR is reported
to client hub or
- NVLinkHub, but hubs
do not return DECERR to client.
- DECERR of PTC
request causes
- SMMU fault for
requests that hit on TLB entry.
- DRAM ECC
single-bit read error
- EMC
- Yes
- Correct data value
- Log and optional
interrupt
- None
- Pipeline ECC
single-bit error
- Point data is used
- Yes
- Correct data value
- Log and optional
interrupt
- None
- DRAM ECC
dual-bit read error
- EMC
- Yes
- None
- Log and optional
interrupt
- SLVERR bit set in data
packet
- Pipeline ECC
dual-bit error
- Point data is used
- Yes
- None
- Log and optional
interrupt
- SLVERR bit set in data
packet

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Error type
- Where detected?
- Containa
ble
- Effect on
transaction
- Report to system
- Report to client
- Parity
- Any unit that acts
on the item other than forwarding
- No
- Forward or
suppress, whichever is most natural
- Log and optional
interrupt
- None
- Timeout
- MSS implements
no timeouts N/A N/A N/A N/A
- DECERRs are detected in the SMMU and in the security check blocks in SCF and MCF. A DECERR
indicates the request itself is bad, irrespective of the data. Since DECERRs must generate a response, they must be passed through the pipeline. The DECERR bit is set in the request, so the request is effectively a NOP as it passes through the pipe. DECERRs are routed through SCF, or the bypass path based on the normal parameters of the request. Since a DECERR may have an illegal address, and handling illegal requests is a burden we do not want every memory resource to deal with, all DECERR requests are directed to DRAM; to the DRAM channel indicated by the channel mask decode, ignoring all BOM and TOM registers. Writes with DECERRs are suppressed and reads with DECERRs return all 1's. In general, the unit that detects a DECERR, generates an interrupt for it (under configuration register control). DRAM ECC errors are detected in EMC. EMC corrects single-bit errors and optionally logs them (frequent single-bit errors may indicate an imminent hardware failure). Uncorrectable double-bit errors set the slave error (SLVERR) flag in the data packet, are logged, and optionally generate an interrupt. The SLVERR bit is propagated up to the client. Pipeline ECC errors are detected in the unit that receives the data (whether MSS or a requesting unit). Single-bit errors are corrected and may optionally be logged. Uncorrectable double-bit errors set the SLVERR flag in the data packet, are logged, and optionally generate an interrupt. The SLVERR bit is propagated up to the client. NVLink protocol errors are detected by NVLink logic based on detectable corruption of a request. The error is logged and an interrupt optionally generated. The logic detecting the error may kill the request or forward it on, whichever is most convenient, since there's no obvious way to fix it and a hang is likely to result in any case. Parity errors indicate corruption of the command or address. The error is logged and an interrupt optionally generated. The logic detecting the parity error may kill the request or forward it on, whichever is most convenient, since there is no obvious way to fix it and a hang is likely to result in any case. The client AXI interface returns both the DECERR and SLVERR bits. Typically, at most one is set, but if both are set, DECERR prevails. Clients may or may not observe, or act on error responses.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
#### 3.1.2.18 Access Checks (DECERRs)
SMMU performs access checks based on page-table access restrictions. Requests that fail are marked as DECERRs. The NVLink protection table performs address-based access checks for iGPU and NVLink Master requests. In addition, there are several categories of access checks, which ensure requests are legal and that they follow the access rules for apertures:
- Address Range Checks
- VPR Checks
- GSC Checks
- AON TZ-SRAM Checks
- TZ-DRAM Checks
- SMMU Translation Checks
iGPU Carveout Checks
##### 3.1.2.18.1 Location of Access Checks
These additional security and range access checks are performed in the security check blocks in one of two locations: 1. SoC client requests at the input of MCFSlice. Previously, SoC client checks were done within the two client hubs. Now there are four or more client hubs, plus GPU requests come in separately from the hubs. The location minimizes the number of instances of the security check logic, while protecting all SoC client inputs, whether coherent or not. If a request fails a security check, it causes a DECERR. Details of the violating request (address, client ID, failure
- ID) are logged in the MC_ERR_* registers. DECERR write requests are suppressed by clearing
byte enables. DECERR read requests return all 1's, thus preventing dissemination of secure data. If interrupts are enabled, MC throws an interrupt.
- CCPLEX requests at the ingress to SCF. CPU cluster requests are checked the ingress of
- SCF for the same reason as above—to distinguish CCPLEX requests from SoC client requests
in systems that can forward and merge requests. Since no lookup is needed for these tests, the latency can be folded into an existing pipeline stage. If a request fails a security check it is DECERRed. If the request came from a CPU client, an MCA event is generated with a code indicating the type of event (it is not necessarily an error). If the request came from a non- CPU client, no error logging is done. DECERR write requests are suppressed by clearing byte enables. DECERR read requests return all 1's, thus preventing dissemination of secure data. 2.
- Note that SoC client requests that enter SCF are guaranteed to have been fully checked for
DECERRs. They do not need to be further checked for DECERRs, although a given request may have its DECERR bit set based on a prior check.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.18.2 Routing and Memory Destination Errors
Requests are routed to the various memory destinations (DRAM, SysRAM, etc.) over multiple paths (IO coherent path and non-coherent path). Not all combinations are supported. The following combinations are illegal and result in DECERRs and interrupts:
- DECERR_COH_ISO – ISO requests on the coherent path
- This error can be suppressed using the programmable register
MC_MCF_SCF_CFG_0.ALLOW_ISO_REQ_ON_COHERENT_PATH (default is to DECERR).
- DECERR_IGPU_RESTRICTED_ACCESS – iGPU is only allowed to access specific regions of
memory as defined by IGPU_ACCESSIBLE_CARVEOUT(1|2)_(BOM|SIZE)
- The status register MC_ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_STATUS_0 contains the encoding
- ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_ERR_TYPE which describes the kind of error. MC_ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_ADR_0
contains the address of the violating transaction. A new bit, DECERR_ROUTE_SANITY_INT, in the MC_INTSTATUS indicates routing related programming errors.
#### 3.1.2.19 Reporting of Functional Errors
- Each of the following MSS subunits can generate interrupts to inform software of completed
events or error conditions encountered by the hardware. The table below gives the subunit and the subunit's primary interrupt status register.
- Table 3.5 Subunit and Primary Interrupt Status Register
- Module
- Interrupt Status Register
- MCF
- MC_INTSTATUS_0*
- HUB
- MC_HUB_INSTATUS_0
- HUB_COMMON
- MC_HUBC_INTSTATUS_0
- SyncPoint
- MC_MSS_SBS_INTSTATUS_0
- MC Channel
- MC_CH_INTSTATUS_0
- EMC
- EMC_INTSTATUS
Note: MC_INSTATUS_0 is the legacy interrupt status register. Each of the subunits ideally contains the three interrupt registers below, but in some cases only contains the first two: 1.
- INTSTATUS. Contains the interrupt vector. A bit in this register is set when the hardware
detects the specific condition that triggers the interrupt. Writing a 1 to the interrupt vector bit clears the associated interrupt.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
2. INTMASK. Contains mask vector for the interrupt vector. Each bit in this register corresponds to a bit in INTSTATUS. If the MASK bit for an interrupt is set (UNMASKED), the corresponding interrupt is forwarded to the global interrupt logic on the non-critical wire. INTPRIORITY. (Not implemented in all units) Contains priority mask vector for the interrupt vector. Each bit in this register corresponds to a bit in INTSTATUS. If the MASK bit for an interrupt is set (UNMASKED), the corresponding interrupt is forwarded to the global interrupt logic on the critical wire. 3. Some subunits have two wires to the global interrupt status logic in HUB-common, and others have only the non-critical wire: intr – interrupt signal to global interrupt logic in HUB-common critical_intr – critical interrupt signal to global interrupt logic in HUB-common For error conditions, ERR_*STATUS registers are provided to log information on the cause of the error (generally the address of the offending transaction, which could be virtual or physical), and other information relevant to the error.
##### 3.1.2.19.1 Global Interrupt Interface
- Global interrupt logic in HUB-common aggregates the incoming signals from the subunits and
exports the following signals to the interrupt processing logic in LIC: mss2lic_mc_critical_intr – OR of incoming critical_intr signals, indicating critical interrupt is active mss2lic_mc_intr – OR of incoming intr signals, indicating non-critical interrupt is active. Each TCU generates secure and non-secure interrupts, and they are routed directly to LIC: mss2lic_smmu_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU0 mss2lic_smmu_comb_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU0 mss2lic_smmu1_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU1 mss2lic_smmu1_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU1 mss2lic_smmu2_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU2 (ISO SMMU) mss2lic_smmu2_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU2 (ISO SMMU) mss2lic_smmu3_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU3 mss2lic_smmu3_comb_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU3 mss2lic_smmu4_comb_nonsecure_intr – non-secure interrupt from TCU4 mss2lic_smmu4_secure_intr – secure interrupt from TCU 4 The following registers within HUB-common show the status of the non-critical and critical input wires from each of the subunits:
- MC_GLOBAL_INTSTATUS_0
- MC_GLOBAL_INTSTATUS_1_0

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- MC_GLOBAL_CRITICAL_INTSTATUS_0
- MC_GLOBAL_CRITICAL_INTSTATUS_1_0
##### 3.1.2.19.2 MCF Interrupts (including interrupts from the SecChk block)
The SecChk security block in MCF implements numerous security checks. When an address decode error occurs, the offending address is captured in the MC_ERR_ADDR register and information about the error is captured in one or more MC_ERR_*STATUS registers. The captured information is intended to assist developers in debugging the error. A single request can trigger multiple errors. There are multiple error status registers (MC_ERR_*STATUS) which capture the status of different types of errors, as listed below:
- MC_ERR_STATUS – Multiple violations. When more than one of the following violations
occurs, the highest-priority violation is reported (listed below in descending priority order):
- ERR_TYPE = DECERR_EMEM – DRAM minimum/maximum allowed memory addresses
- ERR_TYPE = SECURITY_TRUSTZONE – TrustZone carveout violations
- MC_ERR_GENERALIZED_CARVEOUT_STATUS – GSC carveout violations
- MC_ERR_SEC_STATUS – SEC carveout violations
- MC_ERR_VPR_STATUS – VPR carveout violations
- MC_ERR_ROUTE_SANITY_STATUS – Routing incompatibility errors (including NVLink access
violations) The capture registers record the following information about the error: the physical address of the error (since security check is post SMMU) which type of fault the captured error corresponds to a read/write indicator the requestor Client ID the swap bit sent by the client
- Subsequent errors (of any type) do not change the status and address registers until the
corresponding interrupt is cleared.
- To prevent requests with address decode errors from modifying memory or accessing memory
they do not have permission to, the MC "squashes" the requests. A write request that is "squashed" has its byte-enables forced to all zeros; this prevents the write data from being applied to DRAM. A read request that is "squashed" has its read-return data forced to all-ones; this protects the data in DRAM from being read by nonsecure sources.
##### 3.1.2.19.3 NVLink Interrupts
- NVLink generates interrupts for malformed NVLink packets, unexpected responses, and NVLink
protection table violations, etc.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.19.4 Memory Controller Channel Interrupts
There is currently only one performance warning type interrupt: ARBITRATION_EMEM. It fires when the MC detects that a request has been pending in the Row Sorter long enough to hit the
- DEADLOCK_PREVENTION_SLACK_THRESHOLD. In addition to true performance problems, this
interrupt may fire in situations like clock frequency changes, when the EMC backpressures pending traffic for long periods of time. This interrupt is intended to help developers identify and debug performance and configuration issues.
##### 3.1.2.19.5 EMC Interrupts
EMC generates interrupts on the following conditions:
- ECC error buffer overflow
- ECC correctable error
- ECC uncorrectable error
- Clock change FIFO overflow
- DLL lock timeout
- DLL alarm: From the EMC Digital DLL when the output delay code reaches the maximum
value. Attempt to issue command to device which is in self-refresh.
- Read data from MRR is available (to prevent software from polling for data)
- DRAM clock change sequence complete
- Refresh overflow
##### 3.1.2.19.6 PCIe MSI
- Message Signaled Interrupts (MSIs) are interrupts conveyed from an endpoint device to the
interrupt controller by memory transactions, rather than dedicated wires. PCIe MSIs are 32-bit ordered writes received by the PCIe root port (an MSS client) with system physical addresses that fall within the 64MB MSI address region specified by msi_base (iob_msi_base_match/iob_msi_base_mask) where address bits 25-16 are greater than 31, address bits 25-16 are less than 992, and address bits 15-0 are 0x0000.
- The MSS Hub routes PCIE MSIs through the SMMU to ensure that devices can only trigger
interrupts assigned to the device. MSS Hub routes MSIs to SCF regardless of other considerations. SCF decodes the MSI address range and forwards MSIs to the IOBridge/GIC. MSIs are required to push all previous writes to visibility before the MSI is sent to the interrupt controller. Because GIC is a separate destination in SCF, the standard ordered write implementation for PCIe writes to memory do not provide the required ordering guarantees for MSI messages. MSI ordering is provided by an interlock in the PCIe controller that waits for WriteAcks of all previously issued writes before forwarding an MSI. Because ordering is handled externally and not by the

- MSS Registers
ordered write mechanism in SCF, MSS Hub converts MSIs to non-ordered writes before sending to MCF.
#### 3.1.2.20 Clocking
- There are separate PLLs for each set of 64 DRAM I/O pads. These four PLLs drive a clocking
structure with locally synchronous clocks for the following clock domains:
- Each set of 64 DRAM I/O pads and associated four EMC and four Memory Controller
- Channels
- The hub units: MCF, SCF, Client Hubs, and MSS HubCommon
- Data Backbone (DBB)
#### 3.1.2.21 Software Interfaces
The primary software interface for configuration is via the APB bus registers.
- Initial configuration
- Power management
- Device/Rank management
- SMMU translation management
- Surface allocation
- Statistics and debugging}.Body)
