# 3.1.3 MSS Registers

- The Memory Subsystem (MSS) is controlled by NVIDIA provided software, and so is not
documented in detail here. However, some registers are exposed to support customers, and these are listed below.
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_CHANNEL_ENABLE_0
External memory address configuration channel select mask configures the routing of requests between the two memory channels. The channel select mask is ANDed with the address of a transaction. The resulting value is XORd to a single bit, which is used to select the channel for the transaction Boot requirements: coldboot - This register should be parameterized in the BCT and written by the BootROM during coldboot. warmboot - This register should be saved in the scratch registers and restored by the BootROM during warmboot. Mask bits [10:9] select single channel vs. dual-channel modes and 512B vs. 1KB interleave as follows, each with its own physical address to <channel, device,="" row,="" bank,="" column=""> mapping.

- MSS Registers
- Interleave MASK[10:9] Remarks
- Single channel 2'b00
512B 2'bx1 Channels alternate on (most) 512B boundaries 1KB 2'b10 Channels alternate on (most) 1KB boundaries While decoding the DRBC data from the address: if mask bit 9 is set then the 9th bit of address is dropped for DRBC decoding; and else if mask bit 10 is set then the 10th bit address is dropped for address decoding. Write access to this register is controlled by the EMEM_CFG_ACCESS_CTRL_0 register </channel,>.
- Offset: 0xdf8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x0000000f (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,1111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

