# 3.2 Gen2 x1 ports and their companion USB 2.0 ports, or up to four standalone USB 2.0 ports.

- The xHCI controller provides mechanisms to communicate with USB 2.0 peripherals, such as
keyboards, mice, card readers, and USB 3.2 peripherals, such as cameras and storage devices. Orin has an USB 3.2 Device controller that supports a device port, allowing Orin to be accessed from an external host device. The USB 3.2 Device controller supports USB 2.0 or USB 3.2 Gen1 x1 with up to 15 IN and 15 OUT endpoints, where a control endpoint consists of one bidirectional endpoint. The endpoints can be configured by the driver to support transfer types of different device classes such as modem, storage, or input devices.
- Both the xHCI controller and the USB 3.2 Device controller support USB link power
managements. Both controllers support remote wake up, wake on connect, wake on disconnect, and wake on over current in all power states, including deep sleep mode. The xHCI Controller and USB 3.2 Device controller are collectively called XUSB internally in
- NVIDIA to distinguish them from earlier USB 2.0 only controllers. Thus some of register
and power partition names have reference to XUSB.

- USB Functional Description
##### 10.2.2.1.1 USB 2 Ports
Each USB 2.0 port operates in USB 2.0 High-Speed mode when connecting directly to a USB 2.0 peripheral or in USB 1.1 full- and low-speed modes when connecting directly to a USB 1.1 peripheral. When operating in High-Speed mode, each USB 2.0 port is allocated with one High- Speed unit bandwidth. Approximately 480 Mb/s bandwidth is allocated to each USB 2.0 port. When operating in full- or low-speed modes all USB 2.0 ports share one full/low-speed unit bandwidth. Approximately a 12 Mb/s bandwidth is distributed across these ports. All USB 2.0 ports support software initiated L1 and L2 (suspend) link power management. USB 2.0 ports do not support hardware initiated L1 link power management.
##### 10.2.2.1.2 USB 3.1 Ports
- USB 3.2 ports support both Generation 1 SuperSpeed USB and Generation 2 SuperSpeedPlus USB

