# 3.3.4 AST Registers

Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.
- There are 17 instances of the AST registers in the following modules as shown in the table
below. The register descriptions in this section provide the offset of each register with base addresses listed in the table.
- Module
- Instance Name
- Base Address
- Always ON Cluster (AON) and SPE
- AON_AST_0
0x0c040000
- AON_AST_1
0x0c050000
- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- APE_ACAST
0x02994000
- APE_ADAST
0x02996000
- Boot and Power Management Processor (BPMP)
- BPMP_AST_0
0x0d040000
- BPMP_AST_1
0x0d050000
- Real-time Camera Engine (RCE)
- RCE_AST_0
0x0b840000
- RCE_AST_1
0x0b850000

- AST Registers
- Module
- Instance Name
- Base Address
- Safety Cluster Engine (SCE)
- SCE_AST_0
0x0b040000
- SCE_AST_1
0x0b050000
- Display Cluster Engine (DCE)
- DCE_AST_0
0x0d840000
- DCE_AST_1
0x0d850000
- Functional Safety Island (FSI)
- FSI_CHSM_AST
0x092d0000
- FSI_CPU0_AST
0x09280000
- FSI_CPU1_AST
0x09290000
- FSI_CPU2_AST
0x092a0000
- FSI_CPU3_AST
0x092b0000 R/W Attribute
- Definition
- RO
- Read-only
- RW
- Read-write
- RW1
- Read-write one only: Once set this bit can only be cleared by a system reset
- RWCL
Read-write-Carveout-Lock:
- Read-only (and can only be reset by a system reset) if
(AST_CONTROL[CarveOutLock] == 1)
- Read-write if (AST_CONTROL[CarveOutLock] == 0)
- RWGL
Read-write-Global-Lock:
- Read-only (and can only be reset by a system reset) if
(AST_CONTROL[Lock] == 1)
- Read-write if AST_CONTROL[Lock] == 0
- RWGL_Region
- Read-only (and can only be reset by a system reset) if (AST_CONTROL[Lock]
== 1 || AST_REGION_*_CONTROL[Lock] == 1) *
- Read-write if (AST_CONTROL[Lock] == 0 && AST_REGION_*_CONTROL[Lock]
== 0)
- RWRL
Read-write-Region-Lock:
- Read-only (and can only be reset by a system reset) if
(AST_REGION_CONTROL[RegionNum][Lock] == 1)
- Read-write if (AST_REGION_CONTROL[RegionNum][Lock] == 0)
- APS_AST_CONTROL_0
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- AST Registers
- SCR Protection: APS_AST_SCR_AST_GBL_SEC_CONTROL_0
- Reset: 0x1fc80000 (0b0001,1111,11x0,1000,0xxx,xx00,000x,x000)
- Bit
R/W Attribute
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 ApbOvrOn: APB Clock Override: Set to 1 to force APB clock always on in AST. 1 = APB SLCG is disabled
- RW
0x0 NicOvrOn: NIC Clock Override: Set to 1 to force NIC clock always on in AST. 1 = NIC SLCG is disabled
- RW1
0x0 CarveOutLock: Carveout Lock.
- This bit prevents writes to all Carve Out controls
when set to 1. 0 = FALSE 1 = TRUE
- RWGL
0x1 DefPhysical: Default Physical Select.
- Specifies the default how the StreamID is selected
for default accesses. 0 = DefVMIndx is used to select the StreamID. 1 = PhysStreamID is used 18:15
- RWGL
0x0 DefVMIndex: Default VM Index.
- Specifies the default VM Index used to select the
Stream ID when (DefPhysical == 0). 9:5
- RWCL
0x0 DefCarveOutID: Default MC Carveout ID. Specifies the carveout ID for default accesses.
- This field specifies the state output on
ast_master_a[w,r]user[15,11] for requests that do not match a region.
- RWGL
0x0 DefSnoop: Snoop.
- Specifies if default accesses snoop the Main CPU
caches.
- This bit controls the state output on
ast_master_a[w,r]user[8] for requests that do not match a region. 0 = Do not snoop request. 1 = Snoop request. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- RW
0x0 MatchErrCtl:
- Match Error Control: Specifies how transactions that
do not match a region are handled. 0 = Transactions that do not match a region are forwarded untranslated with the default attributes. 1 = Transactions that do not match a region return a decode error on the AXI slave interface. 0 = NO_DECERR 1 = DECERR

- AST Registers
- Bit
R/W Attribute
- Reset
- Description
- RW1
0x0 Lock: Security lock.
- This bit prevents writing to all RWGL and
RWGL_Region bits. 0 = FALSE 1 = TRUE
- APS_AST_ERROR_STATUS_0
OverFlow: This bit is set to 1 by Hardware when (Valid == 1) and a decode error response is generated by the AST VMIndxErr: This bit is set to 1 by Hardware when (Valid == 0) and a decode error response is generated by the AST because a disabled VMIndx was used Valid: This bit is set to 1 by Hardware when (Valid == 0) and a decode error response is generated by the AST Software can write this bit to 0 to clear the logged errors (Clears valid, overflow, error- address bits)
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: APS_AST_SCR_AST_GBL_SEC_CONTROL_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000)
- Bit
R/W Attribute
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 Overflow: Error Overflow.
- This bit is set to 1 by Hardware when
(AST_ERROR_STATUS[Valid] == 1) (as result of a previous error) and a new DEC_ERR occurs.
- RO
0x0 VMIndxErr: VM Index Error.
- This bit is set to 1 by Hardware when
(AST_ERROR_STATUS[Valid] == 0) and when a DEC_ERR response is returned because a disabled VMIndx was programmed.
- RW
0x0 Valid: Error valid.
- This bit is set to 1 by Hardware when a DEC_ERR
response is returned. 1 = Error Valid. Software can write this bit to 0 to clear the logged errors (Clears valid, overflow, error-address bits).
- APS_AST_ERROR_ADDR_LO_0

- AST Registers
ErrAddrLo: Logs lower 32 bits of the request that caused a decode error. This field is not updated if (AST_ERROR_STATUS[Valid] == 1).
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: APS_AST_SCR_AST_GBL_SEC_CONTROL_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

