# 3.3.1 Overview

- The Address Space Translation (AST) converts local AXI physical addresses of the embedded
Cortex-R5 and Cortex-A9 processor cores to either virtual or physical Memory Controller (MC) addresses. The AST also adds MC-specific attributes to each address range. A processor may need to use both virtual and physical addresses if it has a dedicated portion of system DRAM that is not visible to the Operating System (OS), and is protected from access by other blocks in the SoC. Accesses to the dedicated region of DRAM must be sent to the MC as physical addresses, and must bypass the System Memory Management Unit (SMMU). If that same processor uses virtual addresses provided by a driver to DMA data, them the processor must support sending both physical and virtual addresses to the MC. The figure below shows a simple address map illustrating address space conflicts that the AST is designed to help resolve. In this example, the OS uses a shared page table for the CPU MMU and SMMU. The Virtual address used for the shared buffer would collide with the BPMP Timer address. The BPMP uses the AST to relocate the buffer in its local address space, but still generates the correct virtual address to the SMMU. This document describes an implementation where the mapping of protected physical regions is handled by boot code during initialization and is completely transparent to the OS.

- Address Space Translation (AST)
**Figure 3.9 Address Space Conflict Example**
#### 3.3.1.1 Features
The AST block provides the following function: A set of regions that provide a mapping from the local AXI address space to the MC address space. Each region consists of:
- The base address and size of the local region
- The base address of the MC region
- Snoop attribute (if routed to SCF)
- Address space ID (StreamID)
- AXI Master and Slave interfaces
- APB Configuration Register block
- Per region access controls
- Per region lock controls
- Global Translation attribute lock
- Error Detection
- Configurable behavior for requests that do not match a region or do not have the right
protection attributes (TrustZone® or security group):

- Address Space Translation (AST)
- - either pass-through unchanged with a default set of attributes, or return a DECERR response

