# 3.5.2 Functional Description

There are 32 channels in GPC-DMA. A DMA channel can transfer a specified range of data between a memory address space (SysRAM or external memory) and an MMIO address space. A DMA channel can also transfer data between a memory address space and another memory address space (Mem-to-Mem copy). The DMA controller follows a simple round robin arbitration scheme between the channels, starting with channel 0.

- General Purpose Direct Memory Access (DMA) Engines
Each channel can have an independent burst transfer size programmed to one word, two words, four words, eight words, or 16 words. For Memory transfers, we only support two word and 16 word bursts. There is a corresponding read/write buffer in the memory buffer manager for each channel. There is also a corresponding buffer for each channel on the peripheral side.
#### 3.5.2.1 DMA Functionality: Mem-MMIO
After programming the DMA channel with the starting MMIO and MSS address, the burst size and the total transfer byte count, the DMA engine can be enabled by setting the channel enable bit.
#### 3.5.2.2 Peripheral Rx Mode: DMA Read from MMIO Peripheral to Memory
The burst size and the FIFO trigger levels in the MMIO slave need to be programmed such that they do not lead to an overflow/underflow of the FIFOs in the peripheral. This means that the controller FIFO thresholds need to be set correctly based on DMA request size. In flow control mode, the DMA engine waits for the flow control request from the peripheral controller to trigger a transfer to the DMA. Then DMA transfers that burst for the given channel. If the burst size is eight, then a 32-byte request can be initiated on the memory interface. For some clients that have support like QSPI, a burst size of 16 words can be initiated to fill the 64-byte buffer in the buffer manager. The buffer control uses byte enable control for unaligned transfers and for the residual bytes if the remaining transfer is less than 32/64 bytes. A burst size of four is also supported, but in this case multiple bursts are needed to initiate the 32/64 byte transfers on the memory interface. Once an Rx request has been initiated to the DMA by the peripheral, the DMA engine initiates a read request from the peripheral FIFO. In case the peripheral is fast enough to fill in the second burst and to increase the DMA engine performance, the Peripheral Control block has the option of initiating two outstanding read requests to transfer bursts from the peripheral FIFO to system memory. The number of MMIO outstanding requests is set in channel register space.
#### 3.5.2.3 Peripheral Tx Mode: DMA Write from Memory to MMIO
The burst size and the FIFO trigger levels in the MMIO slave need to be programmed so they do not lead to an overflow/underflow of the FIFOs in the MMIO client. By default, the DMA engine always initiates a 64-byte read from the MSS for the best system memory utilization. Upon receiving the read data in the buffer, and in case the burst size programmed is eight, then a 32-byte data transfer can occur to the MMIO slave. For clients that support a burst size of 16 words, then all 64 bytes can be transferred. Once a Tx request has been initiated to the DMA by the peripheral, the DMA engine initiates a read request from memory. If the peripheral is fast enough to read in the current burst request and to increase the DMA engine performance, the Peripheral Control block has the option of initiating two outstanding write requests to transfer bursts from the system memory to the peripheral FIFO. In

- General Purpose Direct Memory Access (DMA) Engines
this case, the second write request is queued in the bridge until the peripheral is ready to consume the second burst. In this mode, the Peripheral Control block has to keep track of the outstanding requests and their responses relative to the total transfer byte count needed. The number of MMIO outstanding requests is set in channel register space.
#### 3.5.2.4 MEM-MEM DMA Mode
- MEM-MEM mode can read and write channels that are used to copy data from one memory
location to another. The read channel keeps track of the total transfer size. The RD_MEM engine initiates multiple outstanding read requests to the MSS for higher bandwidth. Once the read data arrives, the RD_MEM block copies this data to the corresponding write buffer in the WR_MEM block. The WR_MEM block in return sends the write data to system memory with a different address. This process continues until all data is copied.

