# 3.5.1 Overview

same architecture, as follows: 1.
- General-Purpose Central DMA controller (GPC-DMA, also referred to as GPCDMA) placed on
the Control Fabric. It has 32 fully programmable independent channels which can be programmed by different masters.
- DMA engine as part of the BPMP subsystem (BPMP-DMA). It has four fully programmable
independent channels.
- DMA engine as part of the SCE subsystem (SCE-DMA). It has eight fully programmable
independent channels.
- DMA engine as part of the RCE subsystem (RCE-DMA). It has eight fully programmable
independent channels.
- DMA engine as part of the DCE subsystem (DCE-DMA). It has eight fully programmable
independent channels.
- DMA engine as part of the AO subsystem (AON-DMA). It has eight fully programmable
independent channels. Note that AON-DMA has no safety support.
- DMA engine as part of the PSC subsystem (PSC-DMA). It has four fully programmable
independent channels.
- DMA engine as part of the FSI subsystem (FSI-DMA). It has eight fully programmable
independent channels. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8.
- Each DMA engine provides the capability of either being used to write a block of data from
- Memory Mapped IO (MMIO) devices, to DRAM or SysRAM system memory via the Memory
- Subsystem (MSS), or to read a block of data from DRAM or SysRAM system memory to MMIO
devices without any processor intervention. In addition, GPC-DMA can copy data to and from any memory mapped peripheral to system memory with and without flow control. Note that APB is sometimes used in this document to refer to MMIO. The APB bus is still used in parts of the control fabric, but the General-Purpose DMA engine is not restricted to only APB devices. This document generally describes the central GPC-DMA controller block, but the instances of the DMA engine are functionally alike except where noted. GPC-DMA connections to the reset of the SoC are shown below.

- General Purpose Direct Memory Access (DMA) Engines
**Figure 3.11 GPC-DMA Top Level Connection Block Diagram**
#### 3.5.1.1 Features
GPC-DMA engine serves APB clients that require memory access. GPC-DMA engine supports APB devices on any Fabric AXI2APB bridge. GPC-DMA engine can copy data from any addressable memory to/from DRAM/SysRAM. Firmware backwards-compatibility with legacy APBDMA drivers. Legacy flow-control support. Removes the dependency on APB bus by issuing pipelined AXI requests. Direct access to memory via AXICIF. DMA engine has a standard interface. Channels are independent from each other.
- CCPLEX to control different channels and cluster DMAs. They are managed by corresponding
cluster Cortex-R5s or Cortex-R52 (in case of FSI). Virtualization support: each channel's registers are in an independent 64K aperture. Functional safety by duplication, ECC for shared buffer and error collator.
#### 3.5.1.2 New Hardware Features
- Any pending transactions (requests or responses) are allowed to make forward progress and
complete. The Busy bit indicates if there is any pending transaction still in flight.

- General Purpose Direct Memory Access (DMA) Engines
A lock bit per channel in the Hypervisor controlled Channel to block any malicious GuestOS from changing key registers that could end up in HOL blocking scenarios and potentially blocking another GuestOS channels from making forward progress.
- For Cortex-R5 DMAs only, the RDRSP queue (common response buffer for all channels) on
the MSS read interface has been increased from a depth of 16 bytes (2 x 8 transactions) to a depth of 256 bytes (32 x 8 transactions). The increase in queue depth matches the maximum number of outstanding read responses in order to solve the DMA deadlock scenario of DRAM access and TCM access at the same time.
#### 3.5.1.3 Support for Legacy MMIO DMA Hardware Features
- The GPC-DMA includes the following capabilities from the MMIO DMA hardware in prior NVIDIA
SoCs. Two modes of operation: single transfer (once) or continuous. Enable bit for each channel. Programmable burst sizes of one, four, eight, and 16 words. For memory, support for two and 16 word burst. Maximum transfer size is 1 GB per channel, with the minimum size being one word. Trigger and flow control mechanism support per channel. These are additional controls apart from channel enable on which the transfer depends. Trigger starts a channel to start the transfer, and flow is used to proceed with every new burst transfer. These events are under software control or hardware control. Channel to channel trigger support, which is the ability to link up channels to start at the end of another channel's transfer, allowing scattering/gathering of physical memory.
- Interrupt enable at the end of transfer with the ability to mask or route to a desired
processor. Wrap mode supported for all channels in Once mode. Round robin arbitration among channels at burst granularity. Direction bit to determine the direction of transfer MSS to MMIO or MMIO to MSS. Separate source address and destination address. MSS addresses are 40-bit wide. Wrap feature: enables the address to wrap back to starting address after N words of transfer. For example, if the address starts at 0x4 with a burst of four words, then the address would increment as 0x4, 0x8, 0xC, 0x10, 0x4, .... If disabled, it would be 0x4, 0x8, 0xC, 0x10, 0x14. Note that WRAP setting must be multiple of MMIO burst.
#### 3.5.1.4 Supported Legacy Software Features
The GPC-DMA also includes these hardware features:
- AXI/PCLK with 1:1 ratio synchronous clock
- Three directional bits to determine the direction of transfer

- General Purpose Direct Memory Access (DMA) Engines
- SysRAM-DRAM to SDRAM-SysRAM
- Fixed pattern write to SysRAM-SDRAM
- Programmable burst sizes of one, two, four, eight, 16 words on MMIO, two and 16 words on
memory.
- Transfer size in words
- Byte enable support
- Interrupts per channel can be routed to CCPLEX, BPMP, SCE, or SPE. An additional interrupt
for common space. Interrupt generation per channel after last burst write response (MMIO or Memory). Support TrustZone® and NV security privileges per channel for a given master. Error handling and DMA engine termination upon errors. Virtualization support by placing channel registers in a 64K aperture. Interrupt is generated when the last response data is received from the MSS for Rx mode, or once the last response data is received from the MMIO bus while reading from MSS (Tx mode).
- Memory to Memory DMA transfer
- The FIFO trigger levels (in the modules) need to be programmed so they do not lead to an
overflow/underflow of the FIFO.
- Software programs all the registers of channel ensuring that the channel enable bit is
disabled. Set the channel enable bit last. If channel is disabled while transfer is in progress, the transfer ends after ongoing burst is completed and an interrupt is generated (if that interrupt is enabled).
- Busy bit gets set as soon as the DMA channel is enabled and gets cleared after transfer is
completed. Interrupts write 1 to clear.
- The default wraparound on the MMIO side is wrapping on one word. It prevents unnecessary
address switching on the MMIO.
- The parameters of the channel must be programmed first (base address, wrap-around, etc.),
then the control register of that channel is programmed. If the control register is programmed first, the current parameters of the DMA would be considered as the programmed values.

