# 3.6.1 Overview

- The System Memory Management Unit (SMMU) is part of the memory system in the SoC. The
purpose of the SMMU is to allow the use of virtual addressing for memory accesses by the hardware devices. The SMMU provides address translation, supports a two-stage look-up for hypervisor support, and can apply various controls and protections for memory access. This function is sometimes also referred to as an IOMMU.
- The SMMU is based on the Arm® MMU-500. This chapter should be read with the Arm
documentation, in particular the Arm CoreLink™ MMU-500 System Memory Management Unit
- Arm System Memory Management Unit Architecture Specification, which is necessary in
understanding the programming model. Refer also to the Memory Subsystem (MSS) chapter of this TRM, where many SMMU related concepts are discussed. For the latest version of the Arm documents, refer to the Arm website: http://infocenter.arm.com/ help/index.jsp
- Arm CoreLink™ MMU-500 System Memory Management Unit Technical Reference
- Manual: Document ID Arm DDI 0517E (ID072715)
- Arm System Memory Management Unit Architecture Specification: Document ID Arm IHI
0062D.b (ID071415)
#### 3.6.1.1 SMMU Configuration
The SoC has three instances of SMMU. One of them serves the real-time requests from display and VI, and is referred to as the ISO MMU (ISO is an abbreviation for isochronous). The other two serve the rest of the SoC client traffic, and are referred to as NISO MMUs. All the SMMU instances are configured to support the following: 64 contexts
- Stage 1 and Stage 2 translation

