# 30000 ppm

- Independent SSC operation
##### 10.8.3.4.6 Calibration
- Controls
The calibration sequence is used to compensate for internal offsets in the receiver datapath including the CTLE and sampling latches used to capture data by the CDR.
- Table 10.46 Calibration: Lane pins
- Name
- Dir
- Description
- RX_CAL_EN
I Enable RX CAL training.
- RX_CAL_DONE
O Status indicating RX CAL training finished. The calibration training sequence should be performed as part of the power up transition. During calibration, it is required for the input signals to be at a zero-differential status while maintaining the correct common-mode as normal operation.
- Sequence
The CAL sequence must be started after the lane has entered the data_disabled state and before entering the active state. Additionally, it is required that the remote Tx be at a zero-differential state while driving valid common-mode for accurate calibration of the input level shifter stage. During the calibration, some training data may show up at the RX_DATA pins, which should be ignored since the lane is not looking at external data.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.83 Rx CAL Calibration Sequence**
Note: If the remote device is missing, the local Rx will not be damaged, but the calibration results should not be considered valid due to incorrect common-mode. If the device is connected later, then the Rx calibration needs to be performed again. When the CAL training has finished, the link can continue with the transition to safe mode for link discovery and eventual transition to high-speed mode.
- Table 10.47 Calibration: Timing
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Min
- Max
- Notes
- TSLEEP-CAL
- Wait time before starting CAL
training. 500 ns
- Allow internal circuit to settle
before starting CAL training.
- TCAL-TRAIN
- CAL training time

