# 30 :25

- RO
0x0 RSVDP_25: Reserved for future use.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x1 PCIE_CAP_TWO_RETIMERS_PRE_DET_SUPPORT:
- Two Retimers Presence Detect Supported. When set to 1b, this bit
indicates that the associated Port supports detection and reporting of two Retimers presence. This bit must be set to 1b in a Port when the
- Supported Link Speeds Vector of the Link Capabilities 2 register
indicates support for a Link speed of 16.0 GT/s or higher. It is permitted to be set to 1b regardless of the supported Link speeds if the Retimer
- Presence Detect Supported bit is also set to 1b. Multi-Function Devices
associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all Functions. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: HWINIT - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W(sticky) else R(sticky)
- RW
0x1 PCIE_CAP_RETIMER_PRE_DET_SUPPORT:
- Retimer Presence Detect Supported. When set to 1b, this bit indicates
that the associated Port supports detection and reporting of Retimer presence. This bit must be set to 1b in a Port when the Supported Link
- Speeds Vector of the Link Capabilities 2 register indicates support for a
- Link speed of 16.0 GT/s or higher. It is permitted to be set to 1b
regardless of the supported Link speeds. Multi-Function Devices associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all Functions. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: HWINIT - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W(sticky) else R(sticky) 22:9
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_9: Reserved for future use.
- RO
0x0 PCIE_CAP_CROSS_LINK_SUPPORT:
- Crosslink Supported. When set to 1b, this bit indicates that the
associated Port supports crosslinks (for more details, see section
##### 4.2.6.3.1 of PCI Express Base Specification). When set to 0b on a Port
that supports Link speeds of 8.0 GT/s or higher, this bit indicates that the associated Port does not support crosslinks. When set to 0b on a
- Port that only supports Link speeds of 2.5 GT/s or 5.0 GT/s, this bit
provides no information regarding the Port's level of crosslink support. It is recommended that this bit be Set in any Port that supports crosslinks even though doing so is only required for Ports that also support operating at 8.0 GT/s or higher Link speeds. Note: Software should use this bit when referencing fields whose definition depends on whether or not the Port supports crosslinks (for more details, see section 7.7.3.4 of
- PCI Express Base Specification). Multi-Function Devices associated with
an Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all Functions. 7:1
- RO
0xf PCIE_CAP_SUPPORT_LINK_SPEED_VECTOR:
- Supported Link Speeds Vector. This field indicates the supported Link
speed(s) of the associated Port. For each bit, a value of 1b indicates that the corresponding Link speed is supported; otherwise, the Link speed is not supported. For more details, see section 8.2.1 of PCI Express Base
- Specification. Bit definitions within this field are: - Bit 0 2.5 GT/s - Bit 1

