# 31 :0 0x0 TSTRH1:

- PPS1 Target Time Seconds. This field stores the time in seconds. When the
timestamp value matches or exceeds both Target Timestamp registers, the
- MAC starts or stops the PPS signal output and generates an interrupt (if
enabled) based on Bits[14:13] of MAC_PPS_Control register.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_PPS1_TARGET_TIME_NANOSECONDS_0
This register is present only when more than one Flexible PPS output is selected while configuring the controller.
- Offset: 0xd94
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 TRGTBUSY1:
- PPS1 Target Time Register Busy. The MAC sets this bit when the PPSCMD1 field
in MAC_PPS_Control register is programmed to 010 or 011. Programming the
- PPSCMD1 field to 010 or 011 instructs the MAC to synchronize the Target Time
registers to the PTP clock domain. The MAC clears this bit after synchronizing the Target Time registers to the PTP clock domain The application must not update the Target Time registers when this bit is read as 1. Otherwise, the synchronization of the previous programmed time gets corrupted. 30:0 0x0 TTSL1:
- Target Time Low for PPS1 Register. This register stores the time in (signed)
nanoseconds. When the value of the timestamp matches the both Target
- Timestamp registers, then based on the TRGTMODSEL1 field in the
- MAC_PPS_Control register, the MAC starts or stops the PPS signal output and
generates an interrupt (if enabled). This value should not exceed 0x3B9A_C9FF when the TSCTRLSSR field is set in the MAC_Timestamp_Control register. The actual start or stop time of the PPS signal output might have an error margin up to one unit of sub-second increment value.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_PPS1_INTERVAL_0
The PPS1 Interval register contains the number of units of sub-second increment value between the rising edges of PPS1 signal output (ptp_pps_o[1]).
- Offset: 0xd98
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

