# 31 :0 0x0 TSS:

- Timestamp Second. Timestamp Seconds The value in this field is the seconds
part of the update. When ADDSUB is reset, this field must be programmed with the seconds part of the update value. When ADDSUB is set, this field must be programmed with the complement of the seconds part of the update value. For example, if 2.000000001 seconds need to be subtracted from the system time, the TSS field in the MAC_Timestamp_Seconds_Update register must be 0xFFFF_FFFE (that is, 2^32 - 2).
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_SYSTEM_TIME_NANOSECONDS_UPDATE_0
This register is present only when the IEEE 1588 timestamp feature is selected without external timestamp input.
- Offset: 0xd14
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 ADDSUB:
- Add or Subtract Time. When this bit is set, the time value is subtracted with the
contents of the update register. When this bit is reset, the time value is added with the contents of the update register. 30:0 0x0 TSSS:
- Timestamp Sub Seconds. The value in this field is the sub-second part of the
update. - When ADDSUB is reset, this field must be programmed with the sub- second part of the update value, with an accuracy based on the TSCTRLSSR bit of the MAC Timestamp Control register. - When ADDSUB is set, this field must be programmed with the complement of the sub-second part of the update value, as follows. - When TSCTRLSSR is set, the programmed value must be 10^9 - <sub- second value>. When TSCTRLSSR is reset, the programmed value should be 2^31
- <sub-second_value>. For example, when TSCTRLSSR bit is set and if

