# 31 :0 0x0 HT95T64:

- MAC Hash Table Third 32 Bits This field contains the third 32 Bits
[95:64] of the Hash table.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- EQOS_EQOS_MAC_MAC_HASH_TABLE_REG3_0
The Hash Table Register 3 contains the fourth 32 bits of the hash table. You can specify the width of the hash table by using the Hash Table Size option in coreConsultant. The Hash table is used for group address filtering. For hash filtering, the content of the destination address in the incoming packet is passed through the CRC logic and the upper six (seven in 128-bit Hash or eight in 256-bit
- Hash) bits of the CRC register are used to index the content of the Hash table. The most
significant bits determines the register to be used (Hash Table Register X), and the least significant five bits determine the bit within the register. For example, a hash value of 6'b100000 (in 64-bit Hash) selects Bit 0 of the Hash Table Register 1, a value of 7b'1110000 (in 128-bit Hash) selects Bit 16 of the Hash Table Register 3 and a value of 8b'10111111 (in 256-bit Hash) selects Bit 31 of the Hash Table Register 5. The hash value of the destination address is calculated in the following way:
- Calculate the 32-bit CRC for the DA (See IEEE 802.3, Section 3.2.8 for the steps to calculate
CRC32). - Perform bitwise reversal for the value obtained in Step 1. - Take the upper 6 (or 7 or 8) bits from the value obtained in Step 2. If the corresponding bit value of the register is 1'b1, the packet is accepted. Otherwise, it is rejected. If the PM bit is set in MAC_Packet_Filter, all multicast packets are accepted regardless of the multicast hash values. If the Hash Table register is configured to be double-synchronized to the (G)MII clock domain, the synchronization is triggered only when Bits[31:24] (in little-endian mode) or Bits[7:0] (in big-endian mode) of the Hash Table Register X registers are written. If double-synchronization is enabled, consecutive writes to this register should be performed after at least four clock cycles in the destination clock domain.
- Offset: 0x1c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

