# 31 :0

- Reserved
- RDES3 Context Descriptor
- OWN
- Own Bit
- When this bit is set, it indicates that the DMA owns the descriptor. When
this bit is reset, it indicates that the application owns the descriptor. The DMA clears this bit when either of the following conditions is true: ■ The DMA completes the packet reception ■ The buffers associated with the descriptor are full

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- CTXT
- Receive Context Descriptor
- When this bit is set, it indicates that the current descriptor is a context
descriptor. The DMA writes 1'b1 to this bit for context descriptor. 29:7
- RSVD
- Reserved
- TSD
- Timestamp Dropped
- When set, it indicates that a timestamp was captured for this packet but
was dropped due to the lack of space in RxFIFO. The host should consider the RTSL and RTSH as valid only when TSD=0 and TSA=1
- PRPNG
- PTP response Packet Not Generated
- When set, it indicates that a PTP Response packet was not generated by
the MAC for this received PTP Packet. This bit is valid only when the PTP Offload Feature is enabled in your configuration.
- TSA
- Timestamp Available
- When set, this bit indicates that the timestamp value is available in RDES0
and RDES1 of the context descriptor. 3:0
- PMT
These bits are encoded to give the type of the PTP message received: 0000: No PTP message received 0001: SYNC (all clock types) 0010: Follow-up (all clock types) 0011: Delay_Req (all clock types) 0100: Delay_Resp (all clock types) 0101: Pdelay_Req (in peer-to-peer transparent clock) 0110: Pdelay_Resp (in peer-to-peer transparent clock) 0111: Pdelay_Resp_Follow_Up (in peer-to-peer transparent clock) 1000: Announce 1001: Management 1010: Signaling 1011-1110: Reserved 1111: PTP packet with Reserved message type
#### 10.8.3.6 Split Header Support
This feature supports splitting the packet header and the payload of received packets in separate buffers (buffer-1 and buffer-2). You can enable the split header feature by setting the SPH bit in the DMA_CH(#i)_Control register.
- The HDSMS field of MAC_Rx_Configuration register indicates maximum header size allowed for
splitting the header data in the received packet based on encoding. When the ARBS field of the
- DMA_CH_Rx_Control register is programmed to a nonzero value, ARBS field indicates Receive
Buffer size for buffer-1 and the RBSZ field indicates receive buffer size for buffer-2.
- Packet Type
- SPLM
- Description
- TCP or UDP Packet

