# 31 :0 0x0 HT127T96:

- MAC Hash Table Fourth 32 Bits This field contains the fourth 32 Bits
[127:96] of the Hash table.
- EQOS_EQOS_MAC_MAC_VLAN_TAG_CTRL_0
This register is the redefined format of the MAC VLAN Tag Register. It is used for indirect addressing. It contains the address offset, command type and Busy Bit for CSR access of the Per VLAN Tag registers.
- Offset: 0x50
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 EIVLRXS:
- Enable Inner VLAN Tag in Rx Status When this bit is set, the MAC
provides the inner VLAN Tag in the Rx status. When this bit is reset, the MAC does not provide the inner VLAN Tag in Rx status.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_30: Reserved. 29:28
- RW
0x0 EIVLS:
- Enable Inner VLAN Tag Stripping on Receive This field indicates the
stripping operation on inner VLAN Tag in received packet.
- RW
0x0 ERIVLT:
- Enable Inner VLAN Tag Comparison When this bit, VTHM bit and the
- EDVLP field are set, the MAC receiver enables VLAN Hash filtering
operation on the inner VLAN Tag (if present). When this bit is reset and VTHM bit is set, the MAC receiver enables VLAN Hash filtering operation on the outer VLAN Tag (if present). The ERSVLM bit and DOVLTC bit determines which VLAN type is enabled for filtering.
- RW
0x0 EDVLP:
- Enable Double VLAN Processing When this bit is set, the MAC enables
processing of up to two VLAN Tags on Tx and Rx (if present). When this bit is reset, the MAC enables processing of up to one VLAN Tag on Tx and Rx (if present).
- RW
0x0 VTHM:
- VLAN Tag Hash Table Match Enable When this bit is set, the most
significant four bits of CRC of VLAN Tag are used to index the content of the MAC_VLAN_Hash_Table register. A value of 1 in the VLAN Hash
- Table register, corresponding to the index, indicates that the packet
matched the VLAN hash table. When the ETV bit is set, the CRC of the 12-bit VLAN Identifier (VID) is used for comparison. When the ETV bit is reset, the CRC of the 16-bit VLAN tag is used for comparison. When this bit is reset, the VLAN Hash Match operation is not performed.
- RW
0x0 EVLRXS:
- Enable VLAN Tag in Rx status When this bit is set, MAC provides the
outer VLAN Tag in the Rx status. When this bit is reset, the MAC does not provide the outer VLAN Tag in Rx status.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_23: Reserved. 22:21
- RW
0x0 EVLS:
- Enable VLAN Tag Stripping on Receive This field indicates the
stripping operation on the outer VLAN Tag in received packet.
- RW
0x0 DOVLTC:
- Disable VLAN Type Check for VLAN Hash Filtering When this bit is set,
the MAC VLAN Hash Filter does not check whether the VLAN Tag specified by the ERIVLT bit is of type S-VLAN or C-VLAN. When this bit is reset, the MAC VLAN Hash Filter filters or matches the VLAN Tag specified by the ERIVLT bit only when VLAN Tag type is similar to the one specified by the ERSVLM bit.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 ERSVLM:
- Enable Receive S-VLAN Match for VLAN Hash Filtering When this bit is
set, the MAC receiver enables VLAN Hash filtering or matching for S-
- VLAN (Type = 0x88A8) packets. When this bit is reset, the MAC
receiver enables VLAN Hash filtering or matching for C-VLAN (Type = 0x8100) packets. The ERIVLT bit determines the VLAN tag position considered for VLAN Hash filtering or matching.
- RW
0x0 ESVL:
- Enable S-VLAN When this bit is set, the MAC transmitter and receiver
consider the S-VLAN packets (Type = 0x88A8) as valid VLAN tagged packets.
- RW
0x0 VTIM:
- VLAN Tag Inverse Match Enable When this bit is set, this bit enables
the VLAN Tag inverse matching. The packets without matching VLAN
- Tag are marked as matched. When reset, this bit enables the VLAN
- Tag perfect matching. The packets with matched VLAN Tag are
marked as matched.
- RW
0x0 ETV:
- Enable 12-Bit VLAN Tag Comparison for VLAN Hash Filtering When
this bit is set, a 12-bit VLAN identifier is used for VLAN Hash filtering instead of the complete 16-bit VLAN tag. Bits[11:0] of VLAN tag in the received VLAN-tagged packet are used for hash-based VLAN filtering. When this bit is reset, all 16 bits of the 15th and 16th bytes of the received VLAN packet are used for VLAN hash filtering. 15:7
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15_y: Reserved. 6:2
- RW
0x0 OFS:
- Offset This field holds the address offset of the MAC VLAN Tag Filter
- Register which the application is trying to access. The width of the
field depends on the number of MAC VLAN Tag Registers enabled.
- RW
0x0 CT:
- Command Type This bit indicates if the current register access is a
read or a write. When set, it indicate a read operation. When reset, it indicates a write operation.
- RW
0x0 OB:
- Operation Busy This bit is set along with a read or write command for
initiating the indirect access to per VLAN Tag Filter register. This bit is reset when the read or write command to per VLAN Tag Filter indirect access register is complete. The next indirect register access can be initiated only after this bit is reset. During a write operation, the bit is reset only after the data has been written into the Per VLAN Tag register. During a read operation, the data should be read from the MAC_VLAN_Tag_Data register only after this bit is reset.
- EQOS_EQOS_MAC_MAC_VLAN_TAG_DATA_0
This register holds the read/write data for Indirect Access of the Per VLAN Tag registers. During the read access, this field contains valid read data only after the OB bit is reset. During the write access, this field should be valid prior to setting the OB bit in the MAC_VLAN_Tag_Ctrl Register.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Offset: 0x54
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

