# 31 :0 0x0 MPTU:

- MAC 1722 Presentation Time Update This field holds the init value or the
update value for the presentation time. When used for update, this field holds the 32-bit value in ns, that should be added to the Current Presentation Time
- Counter value. Init happens when TSINIT is set, and update happens when the
- TSUPDT bit is set (TSINIT and TSINIT defined in MAC_Timestamp_ Control
register). When ADDSUB field of MAC_System_Time_Nanoseconds_Update is set, this value is directly used for subtraction
- EQOS_EQOS_MAC_MAC_ADDRESS0_HIGH_0
The MAC Address0 High register holds the upper 16 bits of the first 6-byte MAC address of the station. The first DA byte that is received on the (G)MII interface corresponds to the LS byte (Bits [7:0]) of the MAC Address Low register. For example, if 0x112233445566 is received (0x11 in lane 0 of the first column) on the (G)MII as the destination address, then the MacAddress0 Register [47:0] is compared with 0x665544332211. If the MAC address registers are configured to be double-synchronized to the (G)MII clock domains, then the synchronization is triggered only when Bits[31:24] (in little-endian mode) or Bits[7:0] (in big-endian mode) of the MAC Address0 Low Register are written. For proper synchronization updates, the consecutive writes to this Address Low Register should be performed after at least four clock cycles in the destination clock domain.)
- Offset: 0x300
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x8000ffff (0b1000,0000,0000,0000,1111,1111,1111,1111)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x1 AE: Address Enable This bit is always set to 1. 30:24
- RO
0x0 Reserved_30_y: Reserved. 23:16
- RW
0x0 DCS:
- DMA Channel Select If the PDC bit of MAC_Ext_Configuration
register is not set: This field contains the binary representation of the DMA Channel number to which an Rx packet whose DA matches the MAC Address0 content is routed. If the PDC bit of
- MAC_Ext_Configuration register is set: This field contains the one-
hot representation of one or more DMA Channel numbers to which an Rx packet whose DA matches the MAC Address0 content is routed. 15:0
- RW
0xffff ADDRHI:
- MAC Address0[47:32] This field contains the upper 16 bits [47:32]
of the first 6-byte MAC address. The MAC uses this field for filtering the received packets and inserting the MAC address in the Transmit Flow Control (Pause) Packets.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- EQOS_EQOS_MAC_MAC_ADDRESS0_LOW_0
The MAC Address0 Low register holds the lower 32 bits of the 6-byte first MAC address of the station.
- Offset: 0x304
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0xffffffff (0b1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

