# 31 :0 0x0 CV:

- Read of this register provides {8h0,Master TSC[55:32]} value at the time
of read (after synchronization to APB clock).
- TSC_STSCCR_0
- Slave TSC Control Register
- Offset: 0x100
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: See table below
- Shadow: N

- Time Stamp Counter Registers
- SCR Protection: TSC_SCR_TSCSCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,xx0x,0000)
- Bit
- Parity Protection
- Reset
- Description
N 0x0 FCREQ:
- Frequency Change request; note that the bit with the
same name in the ARM registers is RO as the notional TSC update frequency is constant.
- When this bit changes value, it triggers the hardware
state machine that switches the clock paths, normally resulting in a change of the frequency of RefClk.
- The change is completed when STSCSR.FCACK returns
the same value as STSCCR.FCREQ. Y 0x0 FCREQ_DISABLE:
- Do not trigger the hardware state machine triggered at a
change of STSCCR.FCREQ.
- This allows for an alternate software based clock
change. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE Y 0x0 SRC:
- If FP is 1b, indicates which RefClk source path is
selected. Y 0x0 FP:
- Force the source selection value for RefClk, overriding
- STSCCR.FCREQ, for debug purposes. The selected path
is controlled by the next field. Y 0x0 DIS:
- Disable, combined with the CNTCR.EN field, the slave
- TSC increments when CNTCR.EN is 1 and STSCCR.DIS is
0. N 0x0 INIT:
- Force the slave TSC to take its value from the master
- TSC. The transfer from master TSC to slave TSC occurs
once for each write of this bit to 1, the value returned is always 0.
- Software must trigger INIT at least once before enabling
the serial distribution of TSC (via TSCDCR.EN), at least five cycles of the 32,768Hz clock after enabling
- MTSC (i.e., enabling TSC itself) at cold boot,
and at least five cycles of the reference clock after the reference is correctly configured.
- TSC_STSCRSR_0
- Slave TSC Reference Selection Register
- Offset: 0x104
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: Y

- Time Stamp Counter Registers
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: TSC_SCR_TSCSCR_0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00)
- PROD: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx1)
- Bit
- Reset
- PROD
- Description
0x0 _NONE_ RANGE:
- Select between two lock ranges. Used when FR == 0b. The
lock range is proportional to the frequency of adjust request:
- When 0b, send adjust request at 32,768Hz, this does not
work well with the recommended configuration, with lock range about 1.4 ppm
- When 1b, send adjust request at TSC ref clk frequency
divided by 8, lock range is about 160 ppm for recommended configuration 0 = SMALL 1 = LARGE 0x0 0x1 FR:
- Free running, controls the slave TSC dynamical lock behavior
- When 0b, the Slave TSC locks itself on Master TSC,
recommended mode
- When 1b, the Slave TSC operates independently of Master
- TSC after initialization

