# 31 :19

- RO
0x0 Reserved_31_19: Reserved.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 EIEC:
- ECC Inject Error Control for Tx, Rx ,TSO and Descriptor Cache
memories When EIEE bit of this register is set, following errors are inserted based on the value encoded in this field.
- RW
0x0 EIAEE:
- ECC Inject Address Error Enable for Tx, Rx ,TSO and Descriptor Cache
memories When set, enables the ECC Address error injection feature. When reset, disables the ECC Address error injection feature.
- RW
0x0 EIEE:
- ECC Inject Error Enable for Tx, Rx ,TSO and Descriptor Cache memories
- When set, enables the ECC error injection feature. If EIAEE is set,
enables the ECC Address Error Injection, otherwise, enables the ECC
- Data/Check Bits Error Injection (See EIM and BLEI field in
- MTL_DPP_ECC_EIC Register). When reset, disables the ECC error
injection feature.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_15: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 PKTIE:
- Receive Packet Available Interrupt Status Enable. When this bit is set,
an interrupt is generated when EOP of received packet is written by the MAC to the Rx FIFO. 13:12
- RW
0x0 FIFOSEL:
- FIFO Selected for Access. This field indicates the FIFO selected for
debug access: - 00: Tx FIFO - 01: Descriptor cache (only when DBGMOD
- 1) - 10: TSO FIFO (only when DBGMOD = 1) - 11: Rx FIFO
- RW
0x0 FIFOWREN:
- FIFO Write Enable. When this bit is set, it enables the Write operation
on selected FIFO.
- RW
0x0 FIFORDEN:
- FIFO Read Enable. When this bit is set, it enables the Read operation on
selected FIFO.
- RW
0x0 RSTSEL:
- Reset Pointers of Selected FIFO. When this bit is set, the pointers of
the currently-selected FIFO are reset.
- RW
0x0 RSTALL:
- Reset All Pointers. When this bit is set, the pointers of all FIFOs are
reset.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_7: Reserved. 6:5
- RW
0x0 PKTSTATE:
- Write Control Type. This field is used to decide the tag bits along with
the data being written into the FIFO. When the TxFIFO is written in
- Slave mode or Debug mode, this field marks the type of data written
as follows: - 00: Packet Data - 01: Control Word - 10: SOP Data - 11:
- EOP Data When the Rx FIFO is being written in slave mode, this field
marks the type of data written as follows: - 00: Packet Data - 01:
- Normal Status - 10: Last Status - 11: EOP
- RO
0x0 Reserved_4: Reserved.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

