# 31 :16 0x0 L4DP9:

- Layer 4 Destination Port Number Field. When the L4PEN0 bit is reset and the
- L4DPM0 bit is set in the MAC_L3_L4_Control9 register, this field contains the
value to be matched with the TCP Destination Port Number field in the IPv4 or IPv6 packets. When the L4PEN0 and L4DPM0 bits are set in
- MAC_L3_L4_Control9 register, this field contains the value to be matched
with the UDP Destination Port Number field in the IPv4 or IPv6 packets. 15:0 0x0 L4SP9:
- Layer 4 Source Port Number Field. When the L4PEN0 bit is reset and the
- L4DPM0 bit is set in the MAC_L3_L4_Control9 register, this field contains the
value to be matched with the TCP Source Port Number field in the IPv4 or
- IPv6 packets. When the L4PEN0 and L4DPM0 bits are set in
- MAC_L3_L4_Control9 register, this field contains the value to be matched
with the UDP Source Port Number field in the IPv4 or IPv6 packets.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_RSS_HASH_KEY11_8_0
This register can be accessed only via indirect addressing. The register is added in the spec for informational purpose only. Please refer to databook for details to access this register. The RSS Hash Key to be used in the RSS Hash calculation is 40 bytes. This is organized as 10 registers of 4 bytes each as shown in the following table. You can access these registers indirectly through the MAC_RSS_Data viewport register.
- Offset: 0x1be00c8c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

