# 31 :13

- RO
0x0 Reserved_31_y: Reserved. 12:8
- RW
0x0 PCNUM:
- Policing Counter Number This field specifies the counter
number selected for corresponding VLAN filter event. 7:1
- RO
0x0 Reserved_7_1: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 PCEN:
- Policing Counter Enable When set enables the policing
counter indicated by the PCNUM field
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_L3_L4_CONTROL0_0
This register can be accessed only via indirect addressing. The register is added in the spec for informational purpose only. Please refer to databook for details to access this register. The Layer 3 and Layer 4 Control register controls the operations of filter 0 of Layer 3 and Layer 4.
- Offset: 0xfe00c04
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 4
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 DMCHEN:
- DMA Channel Select Enable. When set, this bit enables the selection of
the DMA channel number for the packet that is passed by this L3_L4 filter. The DMA channel is indicated by the DMCHN bits. When the bit is reset, the DMA channel is not decided by the filter. 30:28
- RO
0x0 Reserved_30_28: Reserved. 27:24
- RW
0x0 DMCHN:
- DMA Channel Number. When DMCHEN is set high, this field selects the
- DMA Channel number to which the packet passed by this filter is
routed. The width of this field depends on the number of the DMA channels present in your configuration.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_DMCHLE0: Reserved.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_22: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 L4DPIM0:
- Layer 4 Destination Port Inverse Match Enable. When this bit is set, the
Layer 4 Destination Port number field is enabled for inverse matching.
- When this bit is reset, the Layer 4 Destination Port number field is
enabled for perfect matching. This bit is valid and applicable only when the L4DPM0 bit is set high.
- RW
0x0 L4DPM0:
- Layer 4 Destination Port Match Enable. When this bit is set, the Layer 4
- Destination Port number field is enabled for matching. When this bit is
reset, the MAC ignores the Layer 4 Destination Port number field for matching.
- RW
0x0 L4SPIM0:
- Layer 4 Source Port Inverse Match Enable. When this bit is set, the
- Layer 4 Source Port number field is enabled for inverse matching. When
this bit is reset, the Layer 4 Source Port number field is enabled for perfect matching. This bit is valid and applicable only when the L4SPM0 bit is set high.
- RW
0x0 L4SPM0:
- Layer 4 Source Port Match Enable. When this bit is set, the Layer 4
- Source Port number field is enabled for matching. When this bit is
reset, the MAC ignores the Layer 4 Source Port number field for matching.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_17: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 L4PEN0:
- Layer 4 Protocol Enable. When this bit is set, the Source and
Destination Port number fields of UDP packets are used for matching.
- When this bit is reset, the Source and Destination Port number fields of
- TCP packets are used for matching. The Layer 4 matching is done only
when the L4SPM0 or L4DPM0 bit is set.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 4
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

