# 31 :16 0x229a DEVICE_ID:

- Device ID. The Device ID register identifies the particular Function. This
identifier is allocated by the vendor. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: No access. - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/ W(sticky) else R(sticky) Note: This register field is sticky. 15:0 0x10de VENDOR_ID:
- Vendor ID. The Vendor ID register identifies the manufacturer of the
- Function. Valid vendor identifiers are allocated by the PCI-SIG to ensure
uniqueness. It is not permitted to populate this register with a value of
- FFFFh, which is an invalid value for Vendor ID. Note: The access attributes of
this field are as follows: - Wire: No access. - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W(sticky) else R(sticky) Note: This register field is sticky.
- PCIE_X<i>_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_STATUS_COMMAND_REG_0
where <i> = 1, 4, 8. Description: This register provides the status and controls the behavior of a function.
- PCIE_X1_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_STATUS_COMMAND_REG_0
- PCIE_X4_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_STATUS_COMMAND_REG_0
- PCIE_X8_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_STATUS_COMMAND_REG_0
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- PCIe x1/x4/x8 Root Complex
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00100000 (0b0000,0000,0001,000x,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 DETECTED_PARITY_ERROR:
- Detected Parity Error. The bit is set when the Poisoned TLP is received
by a Function's primary side.
- RW
0x0 SIGNALED_SYS_ERROR: Signaled System Error.
- RW
0x0 RCVD_MASTER_ABORT:
- Received Master Abort. This bit is set when a Requester receives a
- Completion with Unsupported Request Completion status. The bit is
set when the Unsupported Request is received by a Function's primary side.
- RW
0x0 RCVD_TARGET_ABORT:
- Received Target Abort. This bit is set when a Requester receives a
- Completion with Completer Abort Completion status. The bit is set
when the Completer Abort is received by a Function's primary side.
- RW
0x0 SIGNALED_TARGET_ABORT:
- Signaled Target Abort. This bit is set when a Function completes a
- Posted or Non-Posted Request as a Completer Abort error. This applies
to a Function when the Completer Abort was generated by its primary side. 26:25
- RO
0x0 DEV_SEL_TIMING:
- DEVSEL Timing. This field was originally described in the PCI Local Bus
- Specification. Its functionality does not apply to PCI Express. The
controller hardwires it to 00b.
- RW
0x0 MASTER_DPE:
- Master Data Parity Error. This bit is set by a Function if the Parity Error
- Response bit in the Command register is 1b and either of the following
two conditions occurs: - Port receives a Poisoned Completion going downstream - Port transmits a Poisoned Request upstream If the Parity Error Response bit is 0b, this bit is never set.
- RO
0x0 FAST_B2B_CAP:
- Fast Back-to-Back Transactions Capable. This bit was originally
described in the PCI Local Bus Specification. Its functionality does not apply to PCI Express. The controller hardwires this bit to 0b.
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_22: Reserved for future use.
- RO
0x0 FAST_66MHZ_CAP: 66 MHz Capable. This bit was originally described in the PCI Local Bus
- Specification. Its functionality does not apply to PCI Express. The
controller hardwires this bit to 0b.
- RO
0x1 CAP_LIST:
- Capabilities List. Indicates the presence of an Extended Capability list
item. Since all PCI Express device Functions are required to implement the PCI Express Capability structure, the controller hardwires this bit to 1b.

- PCIe x1/x4/x8 Root Complex
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 INT_STATUS:
- Interrupt Status. INTx emulation interrupts forwarded by Functions
from the secondary side are not reflected in this bit. Setting the
- Interrupt Disable bit has no effect on the state of this bit. For Functions
that do not generate INTx interrupts, the controller hardwires this bit to 0b. 18:17
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_17: Reserved for future use. 15:11
- RO
0x0 RESERV: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 INT_EN:
- Interrupt Disable. Controls the ability of a Function to generate INTx
emulation interrupts. Note: - Any INTx emulation interrupts already asserted by the Function must be deasserted when this bit is set. INTx interrupts use virtual wires that must, if asserted, be deasserted using the appropriate Deassert_INTx message(s) when this bit is set. - Only the INTx virtual wire interrupt(s) associated with the Function(s) for which this bit is set are affected. - For Functions that generate INTx interrupts on their own behalf, this bit is required. This bit has no effect on interrupts forwarded from the secondary side. For Functions that do not generate INTx interrupts on their own behalf this bit is optional. If this bit is not implemented, the controller hardwires it to 0b.
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_9: Reserved for future use.
- RW
0x0 SERREN:
- SERR# Enable. Note: - The errors are reported if enabled either through
this bit or through the PCI Express specific bits in the Device Control register. - In addition, this bit controls transmission by the primary interface of ERR_NONFATAL and ERR_FATAL error Messages forwarded from the secondary interface. This bit does not affect the transmission of forwarded ERR_COR messages.
- RO
0x0 IDSEL:
- IDSEL Stepping/Wait Cycle Control. This bit was originally described in
the PCI Local Bus Specification. Its functionality does not apply to PCI Express. The controller hardwires this bit to 0b.
- RW
0x0 PERREN:
- Parity Error Response. This bit controls the logging of poisoned TLPs in
the Master Data Parity Error bit in the Status register.
- RO
0x0 VGAPS:
- VGA Palette Snoop. This bit was originally described in the PCI Local
Bus Specification and the PCI-to-PCI Bridge Architecture Specification.
- Its functionality does not apply to PCI Express. The controller hardwires
this bit to 0b.
- RO
0x0 MWI_EN:
- Memory Write and Invalidate. This bit was originally described in the PCI
- Local Bus Specification and the PCI-to-PCI Bridge Architecture
- Specification. Its functionality does not apply to PCI Express. The
controller hardwires this bit to 0b. For PCI Express to PCI/PCI-X Bridges, refer to the PCI Express to PCI/PCI-X Bridge Specification for requirements for this register.

- PCIe x1/x4/x8 Root Complex
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x0 SCO:
- Special Cycle Enable. This bit was originally described in the PCI Local
- Bus Specification. Its functionality does not apply to PCI Express. The
controller hardwires this bit to 0b.
- RW
0x0 BME:
- Bus Master Enable. This bit controls forwarding of Memory or I/O
requests by a port in the Upstream direction. When this bit is 0b,
- Memory and I/O Requests received at a Root Port must be handled as
- Unsupported Requests (UR) For Non-Posted Requests a Completion
with UR completion status must be returned. This bit does not affect forwarding of Completions in either the Upstream or Downstream direction. The forwarding of Requests other than Memory or I/O Requests is not controlled by this bit.
- RW
0x0 MSE:
- Memory Space Enable. This bit controls a Function's response to
- Memory Space accesses received on its primary side. You cannot write
to this register if your configuration has no MEM BARs; that is, the internal signal has_mem_bar =0. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: No access. - Dbi: !has_mem_bar ? RO : RW
- RW
0x0 IO_EN:
- IO Space Enable. This bit controls a Function's response to I/O Space
accesses received on its primary side. You cannot write to this register if your configuration has no IO BARs; that is, the internal signal has_io_bar =0. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: -
- Wire: No access. - Dbi: !has_io_bar ? RO : RW
- PCIE_X<i>_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_CLASS_CODE_REV_ID_REG_0
where <i> = 1, 4, 8. Description: This register specifies the class code and revision ID of a function.
- PCIE_X1_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_CLASS_CODE_REV_ID_REG_0
- PCIE_X4_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_CLASS_CODE_REV_ID_REG_0
- PCIE_X8_RC_PF0_TYPE1_HDR_TYPE1_CLASS_CODE_REV_ID_REG_0
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x060400a1 (0b0000,0110,0000,0100,0000,0000,1010,0001)

- PCIe x1/x4/x8 Root Complex
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

