# 31 :15

- RO
0x0 Reserved_31_15: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 RPUES:
- Rx Parser memory Uncorrectable Error Status When set,
indicates that an uncorrectable error is detected at Rx Parser memory interface.
- RW
0x0 RPAMS:
- MTL Rx Parser memory Address Mismatch Status This bit
when set indicates that address mismatch is found for address bus of Rx Parser memory.
- RW
0x0 RPCES:
- MTL Rx Parser memory Correctable Error Status This bit when
set indicates that correctable error is detected at RX Parser memory interface.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_11: Reserved.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 EUES:
- MTL EST memory Uncorrectable Error Status When set,
indicates that an uncorrectable error is detected at MTL EST memory interface.
- RW
0x0 EAMS:
- MTL EST memory Address Mismatch Status This bit when set
indicates that address mismatch is found for address bus of MTL EST memory.
- RW
0x0 ECES:
- MTL EST memory Correctable Error Status This bit when set
indicates that correctable error is detected at the MTL EST memory.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_7: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 RXUES:
- MTL Rx memory Uncorrectable Error Status When set,
indicates that an uncorrectable error is detected at the MTL Rx memory interface.
- RW
0x0 RXAMS:
- MTL Rx memory Address Mismatch Status This bit when set
indicates that address mismatch is found for address bus of the MTL Rx memory.
- RW
0x0 RXCES:
- MTL Rx memory Correctable Error Status This bit when set
indicates that correctable error is detected at the MTL Rx memory.
- RO
0x0 Reserved_3: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 TXUES:
- MTL Tx memory Uncorrectable Error Status When set,
indicates that an uncorrectable error is detected at the MTL TX memory interface.
- RW
0x0 TXAMS:
- MTL Tx memory Address Mismatch Status This bit when set
indicates that address mismatch is found for address bus of the MTL Tx memory.
- RW
0x0 TXCES:
- MTL Tx memory Correctable Error Status This bit when set
indicates that a correctable error is detected at the MTL Tx memory.
- EQOS_EQOS_MTL_MTL_ECC_ERR_STS_RCTL_0
The MTL_ECC_Err_Sts_Rctl register establishes the control for ECC Error status capture.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Offset: 0xcd0
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

