# 31 :28 0x0 TPS2:

- DMA Channel 2 Transmit Process State. This field indicates the Tx DMA FSM
state for Channel 2. This field is similar to the TPS0 field. 27:24 0x0 RPS2:
- DMA Channel 2 Receive Process State. This field indicates the Rx DMA FSM
state for Channel 2. This field is similar to the RPS0 field 23:20 0x0 TPS1:
- DMA Channel 1 Transmit Process State. This field indicates the Tx DMA FSM
state for Channel 1. This field is similar to the TPS0 field. 19:16 0x0 RPS1:
- DMA Channel 1 Receive Process State. This field indicates the Rx DMA FSM
state for Channel 1. This field is similar to the RPS0 field. 15:12 0x0 TPS0:
- DMA Channel 0 Transmit Process State. This field indicates the Tx DMA FSM
state for Channel 0: - 4'b0000: Stopped (Reset or Stop Transmit Command issued) - 4'b0001: Running (Fetching Tx Transfer Descriptor) - 4'b0010:
- Running (Waiting for status) - 4'b0011: Running (Reading Data from system
memory buffer and queuing it to the Tx buffer (Tx FIFO)) - 4'b0100: Timestamp write state - 4'b0101: Reserved for future use - 4'b0110: Suspended (Tx
- Descriptor Unavailable or Tx Buffer Underflow) - 4'b0111: Running (Closing Tx
- Descriptor) This field does not generate an interrupt. The MSB of this field
always returns 0. 11:8 0x0 RPS0:
- DMA Channel 0 Receive Process State. This field indicates the Rx DMA FSM
state for Channel 0: - 4'b0000: Stopped (Reset or Stop Receive Command issued) - 4'b0001: Running (Fetching Rx Transfer Descriptor) - 4'b0010: Reserved for future use - 4'b0011: Running (Waiting for Rx packet) - 4'b0100:
- Suspended (Rx Descriptor Unavailable) - 4'b0101: Running (Closing the Rx
- Descriptor) - 4'b0110: Timestamp write state - 4'b0111: Running (Transferring
the received packet data from the Rx buffer to the system memory) This field does not generate an interrupt. The MSB of this field always returns 0. 7:2 0x0 Reserved_7_2: Reserved. 0x0 AXRHSTS:
- AXI Master Read Channel Status. When high, this bit indicates that the read
channel of the AXI master is active, and it is transferring the data. 0x0 AXWHSTS:
- AXI Master Write Channel Status. When high, this bit indicates that the write
channel of the AXI master is active, and it is transferring data.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_DMA_DEBUG_STATUS1_0

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 2 The Debug Status1 register gives the per Transmit DMA active status.
- Offset: 0x3024
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

