# 31 :27

- RO
0x0 RSVDP_27: Reserved for future use.
- RW
0x1 GEN3_REQ_SEND_CONSEC_EIEOS_FOR_PSET_MAP:
- Request controller to send back-to-back EIEOS in Recovery.RcvrLock state
until presets to coefficients mapping is complete. Note: Gen3 and Gen4 share the same register bit and have the same feature. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 GEN3_EQ_PSET_REQ_AS_COEF: GEN3_EQ_PSET_REQ_AS_COEF is an internally reserved field. Do not use. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x1 GEN3_EQ_FOM_INC_INITIAL_EVAL:
- Include Initial FOM. Include or not the FOM feedback from the initial preset
evaluation performed in the EQ Master, when finding the highest FOM among all preset evaluations. Note: - When CX_GEN4_SPEED/
- CX_GEN5_SPEED, this register is shadow register for Gen3 and Gen4/Gen5
data rate. - If RATE_SHADOW_SEL==00b, this register is for Gen3 data rate.
- If RATE_SHADOW_SEL==01b, this register is for Gen4 data rate. - If
- RATE_SHADOW_SEL==10b, this register is for Gen5 data rate. Note: This
register field is sticky. 23:8
- RW
0xf GEN3_EQ_PSET_REQ_VEC:
- Preset Request Vector. Requesting of Presets during the initial part of the
- EQ Master Phase. Encoding scheme is as follows: Bit [15:0] =0x0: No preset
is requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase. Bit [i] =1: "Preset=i" is requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase. - 0000000000000000: No preset be requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase - 000000xxxxxxxxx1: Preset 0 is requested and evaluated in EQ Master
- Phase - 000000xxxxxxxx1x: Preset 1 is requested and evaluated in EQ
- Master Phase - 000000xxxxxxx1xx: Preset 2 is requested and evaluated in
- EQ Master Phase - 000000xxxxxx1xxx: Preset 3 is requested and evaluated
in EQ Master Phase - 000000xxxxx1xxxx: Preset 4 is requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase - 000000xxxx1xxxxx: Preset 5 is requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase - 000000xxx1xxxxxx: Preset 6 is requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase - 000000xx1xxxxxxx: Preset 7 is requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase - 000000x1xxxxxxxx:
- Preset 8 is requested and evaluated in EQ Master Phase -
00000x1xxxxxxxxx: Preset 9 is requested and evaluated in EQ Master
- Phase - 000001xxxxxxxxxx: Preset 10 is requested and evaluated in EQ
- Master Phase - All other encodings: Reserved Note: You must contact your
- PHY vendor to ensure 24 ms timeout does not occur in presets requests in
- EQ master phase, that is, you must set a proper value to the
- GEN3_EQ_PSET_REQ_VEC register so that the EQ tunning for Figure of
- Merit in the EQ master phase completes before 24 ms timeout. Note: -
- When CX_GEN4_SPEED/CX_GEN5_SPEED, this register is shadow register
for Gen3 and Gen4/Gen5 data rate. - If RATE_SHADOW_SEL==00b, this register is for Gen3 data rate. - If RATE_SHADOW_SEL==01b, this register is for Gen4 data rate. - If RATE_SHADOW_SEL==10b, this register is for Gen5 data rate. Note: This register field is sticky.
- RO
0x0 RSVDP_7: Reserved for future use.
- RW
0x1 GEN3_LOWER_RATE_EQ_REDO_ENABLE:
- Support EQ redo and lower rate change. Note: Gen3 and Gen4 share the
same register bit and have the same feature. Note: This register field is sticky.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x1 GEN3_EQ_EVAL_2MS_DISABLE:
- Phase2_3 2 ms Timeout Disable. Determine behavior in Phase2 for USP
(Phase3 if DSP) when the PHY does not respond within 2ms to the assertion of RxEqEval. Note: - When CX_GEN4_SPEED/CX_GEN5_SPEED, this register is shadow register for Gen3 and Gen4/Gen5 data rate. - If
- RATE_SHADOW_SEL==00b, this register is for Gen3 data rate. - If
- RATE_SHADOW_SEL==01b, this register is for Gen4 data rate. - If
- RATE_SHADOW_SEL==10b, this register is for Gen5 data rate. Note: This
register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 GEN3_EQ_PHASE23_EXIT_MODE:
- Behavior After 24 ms Timeout (when optimal settings are not found). For a
USP: Determine next LTSSM state from Phase2 after 24ms Timeout - 0:
- Recovery.Speed - 1: Recovery.Equalization.Phase3 When optimal settings
are not found then: - Equalization Phase 2 Successful status bit is not set in the "Link Status Register 2" when GEN3_EQ_PHASE23_EXIT_MODE = 0 -
- Equalization Phase 2 Successful status bit is set in the "Link Status
- Register 2" when GEN3_EQ_PHASE23_EXIT_MODE = 1 - Equalization Phase

