# 31 :29

- RO
0x0 Reserved_31_y: Reserved. 28:25
- RW
0x0 DMACHN:
- DMA Channel Number. The DMA Channel number to which the VLAN
- Tagged Packet is to be routed if it passes this VLAN Tag Filter is
programmed in this field. If the Routing based on VLAN Tag Filter is not necessary, this field need not be programmed.
- RW
0x0 DMACHEN:
- DMA Channel Number Enable. This bit is the Enable for the DMA
- Channel Number value programmed in the field DMACH. If this is
reset, then the Routing does not occur based on VLAN Filter result. The packet is routed based on DA Based DMA Channel Routing. 23:21
- RO
0x0 Reserved_21: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 ERIVLT:
- Enable Inner VLAN Tag. When this bit and the EDVLP field are set, the
MAC receiver enables operation on the inner VLAN Tag (if present).
- When this bit is reset, the MAC receiver enables operation on the
outer VLAN Tag (if present). The ERSVLM bit determines which VLAN type is enabled for filtering or matching.
- RW
0x0 ERSVLM:
- Enable Receive S-VLAN Match. When this bit is set, the MAC receiver
enables filtering or matching for S-VLAN (Type = 0x88A8) packets.
- When this bit is reset, the MAC receiver enables filtering or matching
for CVLAN (Type = 0x8100) packets. The ERIVLT bit determines the VLAN tag position considered for filtering or matching.
- RW
0x0 DOVLTC:
- Disable VLAN Type Check. When this bit is set, a 12-bit VLAN
identifier is used for comparing and filtering instead of the complete 16-bit VLAN tag. Bits[11:0] of VLAN tag are compared with the corresponding field in the received VLAN-tagged packet. Similarly, when enabled, only 12 bits of the VLAN tag in the received packet are used for hash-based VLAN filtering. When this bit is reset, all 16 bits of the 15th and 16th bytes of the received VLAN packet are used for comparison and VLAN hash filtering.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 3
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 ETV:
- Enable 12-Bit VLAN Tag Comparison. When this bit is set, a 12-bit
- VLAN identifier is used for comparing and filtering instead of the
complete 16-bit VLAN tag. Bits[11:0] of VLAN tag are compared with the corresponding field in the received VLAN-tagged packet.
- Similarly, when enabled, only 12 bits of the VLAN tag in the received
packet are used for hash-based VLAN filtering. When this bit is reset, all 16 bits of the 15th and 16th bytes of the received VLAN packet are used for comparison and VLAN hash filtering.
- RW
0x0 VEN: VLAN Tag Enable. This bit is used to enable or disable the VLAN Tag.
- When this bit is set, the MAC compares the VLAN Tag of received
packet with the VLAN Tag ID. When this bit is not set, no comparison is performed irrespective of the programming of the other fields. 15:0
- RW
0x0 VID:
- VLAN Tag ID. This field holds the VLAN Tag value which is used by the
MAC for perfect comparison. It is valid when VLAN Tag Enable is set.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_VLAN_INCL0_0
This register can be accessed only via indirect addressing. The register is added in the spec for informational purpose only. Please refer to databook for details to access this register. The per Tx Queue VLAN Tag Inclusion register contains the VLAN tag for insertion in the Transmit packets from respective Tx Queue. It also contains the VLAN tag insertion controls.
- Offset: 0x2100060
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

