# 31 :28 0x9 TBS_CH:

- The number of DMA channels enabled for TBS (starting from the highest Tx
- Channel, in descending order) This field provides the number of DMA channels
enabled for TBS (starting from the highest Tx Channel, in descending order): - 0000: 1 DMA Tx Channel enabled for TBS - 0001: 2 DMA Tx Channels enabled for TBS - 0010: 3 DMA Tx Channels enabled for TBS - ... - 1111: 16 DMA Tx
- Channels enabled for TBS Based on the configuration, one or more bits of this
field should be treated as Reserved/Read-Only. 0x1 TBSSEL:
- Time Based Scheduling Enable This bit is set to 1 when the Time Based
Scheduling feature is selected. 0x1 FPESEL:
- Frame Preemption Enable This bit is set to 1 when the Enable Frame
preemption feature is selected. 0x0 SGFSEL:
- Per-Stream Filtering Select This bit is set to 1 when the Per-Stream Filtering
feature is selected. 24:23 0x3 GCLWID:
- Width of the Time Interval field in the Gate Control List This field indicates the
width of the Configured Time Interval Field 22:20 0x3 GCLDEP:
- Depth of the Gate Control List This field indicates the depth of Gate Control
list expressed as Log2(GCL Depth selected)-5 0x1 ESTSEL:
- Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic Enable This bit is set to 1 when the
Enable Enhancements to Scheduling Traffic feature is selected. 18:16 0x5 TTSFD:
- Tx Timestamp FIFO Depth This value indicates the depth of the Tx Timetamp
FIFO - 3'b000: Reserved - 3'b001: 1 - 3'b010: 2 - 3'b011: 4 - 3'b100: 8 - 3'b101: 16 - 3'b110: Reserved - 3'b111: Reserved 15:14 0x2 ASP:
- Automotive Safety Package Following are the encoding for the different
- Safety features: - 2'b00: No Safety features selected - 2'b01: All the
- Automotive Safety features are selected with ECC and Parity Ports on
- External Application Interface for Data and Control respectively - 2'b10: All the
- Automotive Safety features are selected without ECC or Parity Ports on
- External Application Interface - 2'b11: All the Automotive Safety features are
selected with the Parity Ports on External Application Interface 0x1 DVLAN:
- Double VLAN Processing Enabled This bit is set to 1 when the Enable Double
VLAN Processing feature is selected. 12:11 0x2 FRPES:
- Supported Flexible Receive Parser Instructions This field indicates the Max
Number of Parser Instructions supported by Flexible Receive Parser. 10:9 0x2 FRPPB:
- Supported Flexible Receive Parser Parsable Bytes This field indicates the
supported Max Number of bytes of the packet data to be Parsed by Flexible Receive Parser.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 POUOST:
- One Step for PTP over UDP/IP Feature Enable This bit is set to 1 when the
Enable One step timestamp for PTP over UDP/IP feature is selected. 7:5 0x5 FRPPIPE:
- Supported Parallel Instruction Processor Engines (PIPEs) This field indicates
the maximum number of Instruction Processors supported by flexible receive parser. Values: - 0x0: 1 PIPE - 0x1: 2 PIPEs - ... - 0x15: 16 PIPEs 0x1 CBTISEL:
- Queue/Channel based VLAN tag insertion on Tx Enable This bit is set to 1
when the Enable Queue/Channel based VLAN tag insertion on Tx Feature is selected. 0x1 FRPSEL:
- Supported Flexible Receive Parser. This bit is set to 1 when the Enable Flexible
Programmable Receive Parser option is selected. 2:0 0x5 NRVF:
- Enabled number of Extended VLAN Tag Filters or External VLAN tag lookup
size This field indicates selected Number of Extended VLAN Tag Filters or
- External VLAN tag lookup size: - 3'b000: No Extended Rx VLAN Filters -

