# 31 :24

- RO
0x0 Reserved_31_24: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 GCLEIEC:
- ECC Inject Error Control for GCL Memory When GCLEIEE bit of this
register is set, following are the errors inserted based on the value encoded in this field.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 1
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 GCLEIAEE:
- GCL ECC Inject Address Error Enable When set along with EEST bit of
- MTL_EST_Control register, enables the ECC error injection feature. When
reset, disables the ECC Address error injection feature.
- RW
0x0 GCLEIEE:
- GCL ECC Inject Error Enable When set along with EEST bit of
- MTL_EST_Control register, enables the ECC error injection feature. If
- GCLEIAEE is set, enables the ECC Address Error Injection, otherwise,
enables the ECC Data/Check Bits Error Injection (See the EIM and BLEI fields of the MTL_DPP_ECC_EIC Register). When reset, disables the ECC error injection feature. 20:16
- RO
0x0 Reserved_20_y: Reserved. 15:8
- RW
0x0 ADDR:
- Gate Control List Address: (GCLA when GCRR is 0). Provides the address
(row number) of the Gate Control List at which the R/W operation has to be performed. By default the Gate Control List pointed by SWOL of
- MTL_EST_Status is selected for R/W. However, if the DBGM bit of this
register is set, a debug mode access is given to R/W from DBGB. The width of this field is dependent on GCL Depth selected; unused bits should be treated as read-only. Gate Control list Related Registers
- Address: (GCRA when GCRR is 1). By default, the GCL related register set
pointed by SWOL of MTL_EST_Status is selected for R/W. However, if the
- DBGM bit of this register is set, a debug mode access is given to R/W
from DBGB. Only the lower 3 bits are used in this mode. Higher order bits are treated as dont care values. - 000: BTR Low (31:0) - 001: BTR High (63:31) - 010: CTR Low (31:0) - 011: CTR High (39:32) - 100: TER (m:0) (m=GCL Width selected+7-1) - 101: LLR (n:0) (where n is (log{GCL Depth selected} / log2)) - Others: Reserved Range Variable[x]:GCL Memory
- Address Width of One logical partition + 7

