# 31 :28 0x0 TPS6:

- DMA Channel 6 Transmit Process State This field indicates the Tx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 6. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt. 27:24 0x0 RPS6:
- DMA Channel 6 Receive Process State This field indicates the Rx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 6. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt. 23:20 0x0 TPS5:
- DMA Channel 5 Transmit Process State This field indicates the Tx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 5. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt. 19:16 0x0 RPS5:
- DMA Channel 5 Receive Process State This field indicates the Rx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 5. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt. 15:12 0x0 TPS4:
- DMA Channel 4 Transmit Process State This field indicates the Tx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 4. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt. 11:8 0x0 RPS4:
- DMA Channel 4 Receive Process State This field indicates the Rx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 4. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt. 7:4 0x0 TPS3:
- DMA Channel 3 Transmit Process State This field indicates the Tx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 3. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt. 3:0 0x0 RPS3:
- DMA Channel 3 Receive Process State This field indicates the Rx DMA
- FSM state for Channel 3. The MSB of this field always returns 0. This field
does not generate an interrupt.
- EQOS_EQOS_DMA_DMA_DEBUG_STATUS2_0
The Debug Status Register 2 gives the Receive and Transmit process status for DMA Channel 7.

1G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Offset: 0x1014
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

