# 31 :9

- RO
0x0 Reserved_31_9: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 SEEN:
- Slave Error Response Enable - When this bit is set, the MAC responds
with Slave Error for accesses to reserved registers in CSR space. -
- When this bit is reset, the MAC responds with Okay response to any
register accessed from CSR space. 7:1
- RO
0x0 Reserved_7_1: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 RCWE:
- Register Clear on Write 1 Enable When this bit is set, the access
mode of list of register fields provided in Appendix F changes to
- Clear on Write 1, the application needs to set that respective bit to 1
to clear it. When this bit is reset, the access mode of list of register fields provided in Appendix F remain as Clear on Read.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_ADDRESS0_HIGH_0
The MAC Address0 High register holds the upper 16 bits of the first 6-byte MAC address of the station. The first DA byte that is received on the (X)GMII interface corresponds to the LS byte (Bits [7:0]) of the MAC Address0 Low register. For example, if 0x112233445566 is received (0x11 in lane 0 of the first column) on the (X)GMII as the destination address, then the MAC_Address0 register [47:0] is compared with 0x665544332211. If the MAC address registers are configured to be double-synchronized to the (X)GMII clock domain or Power Management feature is selected, then the synchronization is triggered only when Bits[31:24] (in little-endian mode) or Bits[7:0] (in big- endian mode) of the MAC Address0 Low register are written, so MAC Address0 High register must

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers be written prior to MAC Address0 Low register. For proper synchronization updates, the consecutive writes to MAC Address0 Low register should be performed after at least four clock cycles of the slowest clock between the source and the destination clock domains.)
- Offset: 0x300
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x8000ffff (0b1000,0000,0000,0000,1111,1111,1111,1111)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RO
0x1 AE: Address Enable. This bit is always set to 1. 30:20
- RO
0x0 Reserved_30_y: Reserved. 19:16
- RW
0x0 DCS:
- DMA Channel Select. If the DDS bit of MAC_Extended_Configuration
register is not set: This field contains the binary representation of the DMA Channel number to which an Rx packet whose DA matches the MAC Address0 content is routed. If the DDS bit of
- MAC_Extended_Configuration register is set: XDCS field of
- MAC_DChSel_IndReg register contains the one-hot representation
of one or more DMA Channel numbers to which an Rx packet whose DA matches the MAC Address0 content is routed. 15:0
- RW
0xffff ADDRHI:
- MAC Address0[47:32]. This field contains the upper 16 bits[47:32]
of the first 6-byte MAC address. The MAC uses this field for filtering the received packets and inserting the MAC address in the Transmit Flow Control (Pause) Packets.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_ADDRESS0_LOW_0
- The MAC Address0 Low register holds the lower 32 bits of the 0th 6-byte MAC address of the
station.
- Offset: 0x304
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0xffffffff (0b1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111,1111)

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

