# 36.864 MHz

- Clock to carry 24-bit eight-channel audio data in 192 kHz sampling (HDMI maximum)
While AHUB runs under one clock, AHUB_CLK, its clients have their own clocks. AHUBCIF is the clock boundary in the clients. The following figure shows the clocking scheme around AHUB.
**Figure 7.64 Clock Domains**
- Packing/Unpacking Data
This feature is available only for the ADMA Interface. 32-bit packets coming from ADMA can be unpacked to 8- or 16-bit words before being transmitted to the AXBAR. The reverse path has the capability of packing 8- or 16-bit words in 32-bit packets. The caveat is that the packing can only be done for incoming words of 8- or 16-bits, but not 24 bits, as a single 24-bit word cannot be placed (packed) in two different packets. So AXBAR_BITS in both cases can only be for 8- or 16-bits.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.2.2.2 I2S Controller
The Inter-IC Sound (I2S) controller implements full-duplex and bidirectional and single direction point-to-point serial interfaces. It can interface with I2S-compatible devices.
- I2S Interaction with External Device
The I2S controller can operate both as master and slave. It supports the following data transfer modes:
- I2S mode
- Left Justified Mode (LJM)
- Right Justified Mode (RJM)
- DSP mode, as defined in the Philips inter-IC-sound (I2S) bus specification
- PCM mode with short (one-bit-clock wide) and long-FSYNC (two bit-clocks wide)
- Network (Telephony) mode with independent slot selection for both Tx and Rx
TDM mode with flexibility in number of slots with up to 16 slots.
- Capability to drive-out a High-Z outside the prescribed slot for transmission
The I2S controller can transmit and receive word lengths of 8, 16, 24, and 32. It supports u-Law and A-Law compression/decompression. The I2S controller can control the flow of traffic from another I2S controller operating on an independent bit clock (with a ppm difference compared with its own bit clock).
- Transmission/Reception Data Formats
- LRCK Modes
This subsection illustrates three LRCK modes: Basic I2S mode, Right Justified mode, and Left Justified mode. Basic I2S Mode: In Basic I2S mode, data starts one SCLK after the LRCK edge (Offset = 1).

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.65 Basic I2S Mode Illustrated**
Right Justified (RJ) Mode: In RJ mode, data starts (r/2 – n) SCLKs after the LRCK edge (Offset = r/2 – n, where r = number of SCLKs per LRCK, n = number of bits/sample).
**Figure 7.66 RJ Mode Illustrated**
Left Justified (LJ) Mode: In LJ mode, data starts 0 SCLKs after the LRCK edge (Offset = 0).
**Figure 7.67 LJ Mode Illustrated**
- FSYNC Modes

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
The width of the FSYNC, the Offset value, number of slots and number of SCLKs per 1/Fs are all configurable. The slots are always contiguous.
**Figure 7.68 FSYNC Mode Illustrated**
The width of the FSYNC, the Offset value, number of slots (n), and number of SCLKs per 1/Fs are configurable. But the slots are always be contiguous. Besides these, there is also the concept of "Slot Enables" which is used to specify which slots within one FSYNC actually contain data. The table below shows register fields corresponding to the parameters mentioned above.
- Table 7.108 FSYNC Register Fields and Their Corresponding Parameters
- Parameter Name
- Register Field Name
- FSYNC width
- I2S_CTRL_0_FSYNC_WIDTH
- Offset
- I2S_AXBAR_RX_CTRL_0_DATA_OFFSET
- I2S_AXBAR_TX_CTRL_0_DATA_OFFSET
- Number of slots
- I2S_SLOT_CTRL_0_TOTAL_SLOTS
- Number of sclks per 1/Fs
- I2S_TIMING_CHANNEL_0_BIT_CNT
- Slot Enables
- I2S_AXBAR_RX_SLOT_CTRL_0_SLOT_ENABLES
The following set of diagrams shows the timing relationship between FSYNC, SCLK, and DATA lines for some sample parameter value sets.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.69 Relationship between SCLK, FSYNC, and DATA for Different FSYNC Widths and**
- Offset Values
- Sometimes CODEC/MODEM manufacturers specify a unique set of values for these parameters
and refer to it using proprietary names like PCM mode, NW mode, etc. The following diagram shows the relationship between SCLK, FSYNC, and DATA lines for these modes that the audio hardware team has encountered in the past.
- These names are proprietary and are not standardized. So it is possible that two CODEC
manufacturers have DSP mode, but they each specify completely different set of values for the FSYNC mode parameters. Hence, these following diagrams need to be taken as examples that can help you understand what set of parameter values result in what kind of timing diagrams, that is instead of literally taken as the set of parameter values/timing diagrams for the various mode names listed for them. Always refer to the CODEC/MODEM/external chip datasheet to find out what kind of relationship is expected between SCLK, FSYNC, and DATA lines in the I2S and accordingly use the following examples as a knowledge base and figure out the correct parameter configuration.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.70 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – TDM Mode**

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.71 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – NW Mode**
**Figure 7.72 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – DSP Mode**

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.73 Proprietary FSYNC Modes – PCM Mode**
##### 7.7.2.2.3 Digital MIC Controller
The Digital MIC (DMIC) Controller is used to interface with Pulse Density Modulation (PDM) input devices. The DMIC controller implements a converter to convert PDM signals to PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) signals. From the signal flow perspective, the DMIC can be viewed as a PDM receiver.
- DMIC Features
- Sample rate support: 8 to 48 kHz
- Input PCM bit width: 16 to 24 bits
- Oversampling Ratio: 64, 128, 256

