# 383 :256

- Hash value for this key. HKEY = ESAK (0)
- VALID
- Indicates that this entry is valid
- Table 10.29 Ingress SC Param Table
- Field
- Bit field
- Bits
- Description
- PN_MAX
[68:37]
- Indicates the PN maximum value for a given
SA (Secure Association).
- PN_WINDOW
[36:5]
- Replay Window size
- KEY_INDEX_START
[4:0] Indicates the start offset of key slot table. key slot address = key_index_start + current_AN
- MACsec Rx Core Flowchart
The Ingress lookup process flow is explained in this flowchart:

- MACsec Functional Description
- MACsec ICV Validation
- If MACSEC_CONTROL_0.VALIDATE_FRAMES == DISABLED, ICV Validation is not done. SecTAG and
ICV fields are removed from the frame before forwarding it to the MAC.
- If MACSEC_CONTROL_0.VALIDATE_FRAMES == CHECK, ICV Validation is done. Irrespective of the
validation result, received frame is forwarded to MAC (after removing SecTAG and ICV). IN_PKTS_INVALID Stats counter is incremented upon ICV Validation failure. If MACSEC_CONTROL_0.VALIDATE_FRAMES == STRICT, ICV Validation is done. If the validation fails,
- IN_PKTS_NOT_VALID Stats counter is incremented and received frame is dropped (CRC is
corrupted). The following inputs are needed by AES_CORE for ICV generation on the receive packet. A secret key Key[255:0] derived from LUT. H[127:0] derived from LUT.
- Additional Authenticated Data (AAD) which is packet data from SOP to EOP
IV = {SCI, PN}. The 64bit SCI and 32bit PN are derived from SecTAG of the packet. AES-GCM-128 is the default cipher suite. In default mode, key size is 128 bits. In AES-GCM-256 mode, key size is 256 bits.

- MACsec Functional Description
The basic AES core processes 16 bytes of data at a time. For 128-bit key, it takes 12 clocks to complete processing of 128 bits data. For 256-bit key, it takes 16 clocks to complete processing of one 128-bit data.
**Figure 10.58 ICV Validation Flow**
##### 10.7.2.2.3 MAC Tx
This block interfaces with the MAC receive path through the XGMII/RGMII. This block converts internal data and control bits to XGMII/RGMII in MGBE or ETHER_QOS wrappers accordingly.
- FCS (Ethernet CRC) RECALCULATION
- When the MACsec header and ICV are removed from the packet, FCS is recalculated before
forwarding the packet to MAC engine. For packets that have ICV error, were received with FCS error or some other bus error, FCS is corrupted before forwarding the packet to MAC engine. This behavior is true for both bypass and MACsec processed packets.
#### 10.7.2.3 MACsec with Frame Preemption Feature
##### 10.7.2.3.1 Interleave of Preemptable and Express Packets
MACsec can receive Preemptable and Express packets interleaved in both transmit and receive directions as shown in below diagram.

- MACsec Functional Description
**Figure 10.59 Preemptable Packet Format**
##### 10.7.2.3.2 Processing of Preemptable Packets
As shown in the preceding diagram, intermediate preemptable fragment packets do not have the Ethernet header. MACsec does not have support for complete store and forward of the packets. Each fragment of the packet is transmitted out immediately after being processed. That means, to support processing of the preemptable packets, the MACsec Engine must store the following context information of the preemptable packet in its internal registers.
- SAK
- HKEY
Intermediate HASH output from GHASH Computation.
- Unused bytes from the previous fragment (These are used along with the new bytes of the
next fragment for GHASH computation). When the next fragment of preemptable packet is received, hardware restores the context and resumes the processing of the preemptable packet. The processing of preemptable packets by MACsec Engine is similar in both transmit and receive directions. Note: Fragments of a preempted frame are required to arrive in sequential order at MACSEC. This should not be a problem since preemption is only applicable on point-to-point links. But if fragments are not received sequentially (there can be Express frames in the middle) at MACSEC, MACSEC corrupts mCRC (or CRC if it is final fragment) of the fragment before forwarding it. This is true in both Transmit and Receive direction. It is assumed that receiving MAC discards the frame because of wrong mCRC or CRC.

- MACsec Functional Description
- Replay protection with Preemptable packets
In the receive direction, the Packet Number (PN) present in SecTAG field of MACsec packet is used to provide replay protection. If MACsec is a point-to-point feature, then there is no scope for out of order packets. Strict Replay protection can be enabled irrespective of whether packets are preemptable or express packets.
- But if MACsec is used as an end-to-end feature, then the frames belonging to same SC might
arrive out of order because of preemption support in downstream devices. In this case, there are two options to carry out replay protection. Increase Replay window size.
- Use two Secure channels. One for Preemptable traffic and one for Express traffic. To
support this feature, the SC LUT has a field called “Preempt pkt”. Based on this bit, software can set up different SC channel for Express packets and non-Express packets. If software wants to set up same SC channel for both Express and Preemptable packets, then this bit should be masked out.
#### 10.7.2.4 MTU Check on Egress and Ingress Packets
In egress direction, the length of the packet (post-MACsec processing) is compared to TX MTU register (MACSEC_TX_MTU_LEN_0). If length is greater than MTU value, then CRC of outgoing packet is corrupted. Similarly, in Ingress direction, the length of the received packet from line, is compared to RX MTU register (MACSEC_RX_MTU_LEN_0). If length is greater than MTU value, then CRC of packet going to MAC is corrupted. Note: MTU check ignores (MAC-DA, MAC-SA, FCS) fields in the packet length.
#### 10.7.2.5 Handling VLAN Packets
In the Tx side, while adding SECTAG to the packet, MACsec provides a configurability option to add SECTAG before or after the VLAN fields. If the VLAN_IN_CLR bit (present in TX SC PARAMTER LUT) is 1, SECTAG is added after the VLAN fields. If the VLAN_IN_CLR bit is 0, SECTAG is added before the VLAN fields. The following diagrams illustrate the functionality for single and double VLAN pkts. Software must configure VLAN_IN_CLR bit based on the capability of the other nodes present in the network.

- MACsec Functional Description
**Figure 10.60 MACsec Packet with Single VLAN (VLAN_IN_CLR=1)**
**Figure 10.61 MACsec Packet with double VLAN (VLAN_IN_CLR=1)**
**Figure 10.62 MACsec Packet with single VLAN (VLAN_IN_CLR=0)**
**Figure 10.63 MACsec Packet with double VLAN (VLAN_IN_CLR=0)**
On the Receive side, MACsec can handle both the cases. That is, it can handle the packets. which has SECTAG immediately after the MAC-SA which has SECTAG after single or double VLAN fields
##### 10.7.2.5.1 Enabling of Double VLAN Packet Processing
DVLAN_PKT field in LUTs enables use of DVLAN.
- MACsec hardware detects the outer VLAN with the EtherType programmed in the following
registers. The default value of these registers is 0x88a8. If the network has packets with a different outer VLAN EtherType, software can program these registers accordingly.
- MACSEC_TX_DVLAN_CONTROL_0
- MACSEC_RX_DVLAN_CONTROL_0
#### 10.7.2.6 Generation of Secure Interrupt
In MACsec, secure Interrupt is generated under the following conditions. If an RM or VM tries to access registers defined in TZ page.

- MACsec Functional Description
- For example, there is 16 kB reserved space that maps into TZ memory space in AMAP. RM
cannot issue this address range and if it does, it is a secure interrupt. If SC lookup operation points to an uninitialized slot in key table. If LUT operation fails in Ingress or Egress direction, then based on configuration setting, secure interrupt is generated to indicate that there is no matching entry in LUT.
#### 10.7.2.7 Byte Order Definition
- Throughout MACsec LUT programming, network order or Big-Endian Order is followed which is
defined in RFC 1700. The Byte Order from the RFC is shown below. 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
- The only difference from the numbering above versus the numbering scheme followed in the
MACsec specification is that in the MACsec specification, the offset starts at 0. Therefore, if we want to access 10th byte, the offset is “9”.
#### 10.7.2.8 Miscellaneous Points
##### 10.7.2.8.1 MTU Length Check
1. 2. MTU check happens at the end of a frame.
- In the case of normal or express frame, MTU checks happens when the last byte of the frame
is received.
- In the case of a preempted frame, the check happens when last byte of final fragment is
received. If mCRC of any nonfinal fragment is found to be incorrect, that fragment is considered as the final fragment and MTU check happens when the last byte of that fragment is received.
- If MTU check fails, MACSEC corrupts the frame CRC or CRC of final fragment if it is
preempted frame, before forwarding it to the downstream module.
- On Egress side packet received from MAC), MACSEC always increments packet PN
irrespective of received packet CRC status (good or bad CRC). This is because MACSEC does not provide store-and-forward behavior, so CRC is known later. 3. 4. 5. 6.

- MACsec Functional Description
##### 10.7.2.8.2 PN Update in the Presence of CRC Error in MACSEC Tx
##### 10.7.2.8.3 SoT (Start of Transmission) Delay Setting
1.
- MACSEC provides software control to decide when to start packet transmission based on
- MACSEC_TX_SOT_DELAY_0.SOT_DELAY setting. After MACSEC TX is enabled, this is the
initial delay, it consumes before it starts transmitting the traffic to the line side module.
- Examples: XGMII: to PCS module for MGBE, or RGMII: to the pads (for EQOS)
1.
- SOT_DELAY recommended settings are shown in the following table. Software should not use
any other settings than the mentioned ones in the table below.
- Table 10.30 SOT_DELAY settings
- MACSEC_RX_SOT_DELAY_0[SOT_DE
- LAY]
- Bit field settings
- MACSEC instance
- MACSEC_TX_SOT_DELAY_0[SOT_DE
- LAY]
- Bit field settings
- EQOS_MACSEC
0x4E 0x4E
- MGBE_MACSEC
0x1E 0x1E
##### 10.7.2.8.4 Ingress VLAN handling when SecTAG[SL] is non-zero
- For the received MACSEC packets that have SECTAG[SL] nonzero value, the payload is
considered from first byte of MAC-DA until the byte that matches the SL value. This is irrespective of whether VLAN tag bytes are before the SECTAG field or after in a packet.
- This behavior is same for both Single and Double VLAN tagged packets. VLAN byes are
considered part of SL bytes length. 1. 2.
#### 10.7.2.9 Clocks and Resets
##### 10.7.2.9.1 Clocks
MACsec has the following clocks: macsec_tx_clk Used for the transmit datapath. Config/Status registers also operate in this clock domain. macsec_rx_clk Used for the receive datapath. macsec_pclk Used to operate APB interface.
- Mac_tx_clk
- Used to operate MAC Tx interface to MACsec

- MACsec Functional Description
- Mac_rx_clk
- Used to operate MAC Rx interface from MACsec
The following diagrams illustrate the relation between MGBE/ETHER_QOS clks and MACsec clks.
**Figure 10.64 Relation between ETHER_QOS Clocks and MACsec Clocks**
**Figure 10.65 Relation between MGBE Clocks and MACsec Clocks**
- Clock Gates
The following are the registers related to MACsec Clock Gates:
- ETHER_QOS MACsec Instance
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_EQOS_0. CLK_ENB_EQOS_MACSEC_TX

- MACsec Functional Description
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_EQOS_RX_0. CLK_ENB_EQOS_MACSEC_RX
- MGBE MACsec Instances
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MACSEC_CLK_ENABLE
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE1_CLK_CTRL_0.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE1_MACSEC_CLK_ENABLE
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE2_CLK_CTRL_0.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE2_MACSEC_CLK_ENABLE
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE3_CLK_CTRL_0.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE3_MACSEC_CLK_ENABLE
For the cases, where Ethernet IPs (MGBE/ETHER_QOS) do not need MACsec functionality, software can turn off the respective MACsec instance clocks using the above clock enables. These "clock enables" can also be used during EEE to turn off MACsec clocks.
##### 10.7.2.9.2 Resets
MACsec has the following three resets. macsec_rstn The software controls this reset through the CAR register. This reset cannot reset/clear the bit fields defined in "MACSEC_CONTROL0_0" register. macsec_sysreset_rstn (secure reset)
- It is a secure reset driven by BPMP during boot time and during power gating/ungating
time. It resets the entire MACsec logic, including the TZ configuration space. This reset has a corresponding bit in the CAR Page. At runtime, BPMP asserts/de-asserts it only for TZ requests.
- Mac_rstn
- Software controls this reset through the CAR register. mac_rstn is used only for the final
flops stage on the output interface (XGMII/RGMII) signals. These resets are internally synchronized. Reset to MACsec can be asynchronously asserted and de-asserted. The de-assertion should happen after the clocks are stable. De-assertion of resets is synchronized internally in MACSEC block. The reset registers for MACsec are: ETHER_QOS MACsec Reset Controls:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_EQOS_0. SWR_EQOS_MACSEC_SECURE_RST
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_EQOS_0. SWR_EQOS_MACSEC_RST
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_EQOS_0. SWR_EQOS_RST
MGBE MACsec Reset Controls:

- MACsec Functional Description
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_MGBE_SET_0. SET_SWR_MGBE<i>_MACSEC_SECURE_RST
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_MGBE_ SET_0. SET_SWR_MGBE<i>_MACSEC_RST
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_MGBE_ SET_0. SET_SWR_MGBE<i>_MAC_RST
- Note: <i=0 to 3> is the MGBE instance number
- Reset Special Cases
The following table provides special considerations to avoid metastability during various reset assertions. secure_reset and non_secure_reset are for MACsec block and mac_reset is for MAC. The table illustrates the application of resets while the block is functional and needs a reset. In such cases, the clock “Turn Off” behavior as defined below is needed. When removing the reset, clocks are needed since resets are synchronized internally before de-assertion. Assertion of reset during power up does not require clocks but de-assertion does.
- Table 10.31 Special Considerations During Reset
- Handling Metastability in Source to
- Destination during Reset
- Reset (Metastable Flop Reset at Destination)
secure_reset non-secure-reset mac_reset direct_reset (DFT Reset)
- Reset (Source Flop Reset)
secure_reset
- Not Applicable
- Note 2
- Note 4
- Not Applicable
non-secure-reset
- Note1
- Not Applicable
- Note 5
- Not Applicable
mac_reset
- Not Applicable
- Note 3
- Not Applicable
- Not Applicable
direct_reset (DFT Reset)
- Not Applicable
- Not Applicable
- Not Applicable
- Not Applicable
Note 1: For Error collator crossings, follow software guideline to read the EC status before asserting nonsecure reset. Note 2: No software action required since secure_reset resets both secure and nonsecure flops. Note 3: Turn off the clock to MACSec block then apply nonsecure reset. Note 4: Turn off the clock to MAC then apply secure_reset. Note 5: Turn off the clock to MAC then apply nonsecure reset. Note 6: No software action required since observability should not be operational with non-secure- reset. “NA” means that the case is not relevant.

- MACsec Functional Description
##### 10.7.2.9.3 Port Names of Clock and Resets at Wrapper Level
- ETHER_QOS Wrapper Level
macsec_rstn --> eqos_macsec_reset_rstn macsec_sysreset_rstn --> eqos_macsec_secure_reset_rstn mac_rstn --> eqosrstn macsec_tx_clk --> eqos_macsec_tx_clk macsec_rx_clk --> eqos_macsec_rx_clk mac_tx_clk --> eqos_tx_clk mac_rx_clk --> eqos_rx_clk pclk --> eqos_macsec_pclk
- MGBE Wrapper Level
macsec_rstn --> mgbe_macsec_rst_n macsec_sysreset_rstn --> mgbe_macsec_secure_reset_rstn mac_rstn --> mgbe_mac_rst_n pclk --> mgbe_macsec_pclk macsec_tx_clk --> mgbe_macsec_clk macsec_rx_clk --> mgbe_macsec_clk mac_tx_clk --> mgbe_mac_clk mac_rx_clk --> mgbe_mac_clk
#### 10.7.2.10 Power Management
##### 10.7.2.10.1 Clock Gating
Refer to the "Clock Gates" section.

- MACsec Programming Guidelines
##### 10.7.2.10.2 Power Gating
- Either the whole MGBE_wrapper or the ETHER_QOS wrapper can be power gated. There is no
standalone power gating for MACsec.
##### 10.7.2.10.3 Cold/Warm Boot
The behavior of MACsec remains the same during either cold or warm Boot. MACsec needs to go through the same reset sequence with other modules in MGBE_wrapper or ETHER_QOS wrapper module.

