# 3 :1

- RO
0x0 Reserved_3_1: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 ST:
- Start or Stop Transmission Command. When this bit is set, transmission is
placed in the Running state. The DMA checks the Transmit list at the current position for a packet to be transmitted. The DMA tries to acquire descriptor from either of the following positions: - The current position in the list This is the base address of the Transmit list set by the
- DMA_CH0_TxDesc_List_LAddress register. - The position at which the
transmission was previously stopped If the DMA does not own the current descriptor, the transmission enters the Suspended state and the TBU bit of the DMA_CH0_Status register is set. The Start Transmission command is effective only when the transmission is stopped. If the command is issued before setting the DMA_CH0_TxDesc_List_LAddress register, the
- DMA behavior is unpredictable. When this bit is reset, the transmission
process is placed in the Stopped state after completing the transmission of the current packet. The Next Descriptor position in the Transmit list is saved, and it becomes the current position when the transmission is restarted. To change the list address, program
- DMA_CH0_TxDesc_List_Address register with a new value when this bit is
reset. The new value is considered when this bit is set again. The stop transmission command is effective only when the transmission of the current packet is complete or the transmission is in the Suspended state.
- MGBE_DWCXG_DMA_CH0_DMA_CH0_RX_CONTROL_0
The DMA Channel0 Receive Control register controls the Rx features such as PBL, buffer size, and extended status.
- Offset: 0x3108
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 RPF:
- Rx DMA Channel0 Packet Flush. When this bit is set to 1, then
- DWC_xgmac automatically flushes the packet from the Rx Queues
destined to this DMA Rx Channel, when it is stopped. When this bit remains set and the DMA is re-started by the software driver the packets residing in the Rx Queues that were received when the DMA is stopped, still gets flushed out. The packets received by the MAC only after the DMA is re-started is routed to the RxDMA. The flushing is done on the Read side of the Rx Queue. When this bit is set to 0, DWC_xgmac does not flush the packet in the Rx Queue destined to this RxDMA Channel when it is
- STOP state. This might cause head-of-line blocking in the corresponding
RxQueue. 30:28
- RO
0x0 Reserved_30_28: Reserved.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 2
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

