# 3 :2

- RW
0x0 TXQEN:
- Transmit Queue Enable. This field is used to enable/disable the
transmit queue. - 2'b00: Not enabled - 2'b01: Reserved - 2'b10: Enabled
- 2'b11: Reserved The queue is enabled by default in single queue
configuration. Therefore, this field is reserved when the number of transmit queues selected is one and has a reset value of 2'b10.
- RW
0x0 TSF:
- Transmit Store and Forward. When this bit is set, the transmission
starts when a full packet resides in the MTL Tx Queue. When this bit is set, the values specified in the TTC field are ignored. This bit should be changed only when the transmission is stopped.
- RW
0x0 FTQ:
- Flush Transmit Queue. When this bit is set, the Tx Queue Controller
logic is reset to its default values. Therefore, all the data in the Tx queue is lost or flushed. This bit is internally reset when the flushing operation is complete. You should not write to this register until this bit is reset. The data which is already accepted by the MAC transmitter is not flushed. It is scheduled for transmission and results in underflow and runt packet transmission. Note: The flush operation is complete only when the Tx queue is empty. To complete this flush operation, the PHY Tx clock (clk_tx_312pt5_i) must be active.
- MGBE_DWCXG_MTL_Q9_MTL_TXQ9_UNDERFLOW_0

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers cont'd 2
- The Queue 9 Underflow Counter register contains the counter for packets aborted because of
Transmit queue underflow.
- Offset: 0x1584
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

