# 4.2.2 PMC Functional Description

#### 4.2.2.1 Reset Generation Logic
- PMC receives the primary chip reset, from the SYS_RESET_N pad, and various internal reset
requests; and generates all the internal system resets for the system. From the PMC provided resets, CAR, and AO CAR units generate resets for most of the units in the chip.

- PMC Functional Description
##### 4.2.2.1.1 SYS_RESET_N
SYS_RESET_N is the reset input to the SoC from the external PMIC. This reset must be asserted before VDD_AO (CB1 rail group) is stable and de-asserted when the CB2 rails from the PMIC, the 32 kHz clock, and reference clocks are enabled and stable. This is the only reset source that asserts all resets from PMC and CAR. Some register state persists through the other internal reset sources.
- The WDT_RESET_OUT* pads are sideband reset request outputs for PMICs that support such a
feature. These pads are pin-muxed and are only used one at a time. Asserting one of these active low outputs results in assertion of SYS_RESET_N.
- Watchdog Timer Reset Requests
This SoC contains various WDT instances that are used for debug and/or to recover the AP from a deadlocked state. The following figure shows the sequence of actions that can be programmed to occur for each successive WDT expiry. Expiry is prevented by software by restarting the counter.
**Figure 4.3 Sequence of WDT Actions**
The first two expiries of the WDT result in local interrupts being issued to the associated cluster’s interrupt controller. The third expiry results in a remote interrupt being issued through LIC that can be further distributed and processed. If the AXI2APB bridge is associated with the unresponsive cluster and is accessible in this state, this results in a software-based cluster reset to that unresponsive cluster from the software handler. It can also result in an HSM-driven reset in automotive platforms. The fourth and fifth expiries issue increasingly lower levels of reset. The 4th expiry results in a PMC Debug Reset (Level 2 source) and the 5th expiry results in a PMC or PMIC POR Reset (Level 1b or 0 sources, respectively). The third expiry of a given WDT results in a remote interrupt being issued through LIC. Software (either Software Handler or SCE firmware) can then intervene with any debug or recovery sequence. This includes issuing a software reset to the individual unresponsive cluster or an HSM

- PMC Functional Description
system reset request. Software would be responsible for any sequencing necessary to make the resulting reset feasible.
- Because the software handler runs in CCPLEX and CCPLEX only resets as a whole on system
resets, it cannot be reset at this stage. Similarly, BPMP is the last cluster standing and is also only reset on system resets. In the case of SCE/HSM issuing a reset, these third expiry remote interrupts are used to avoid WDT resets occurring without HSM/SCE's knowledge. The interrupt results in an HSM reset request and any other actions SCE need to take, rather than a direct reset request from the WDT. It may be necessary to configure other devices in the platform before issuing the reset to avoid further platform-level timeouts or undesired power cycling. A WDT L2 Reset is issued after the fourth expiry of a given WDT. DFD logic persists through this reset, and a DFD state machine exists in PMC that can be used to perform hardware-based sequences before reset assertion, such as hardware RAM Dump. This can debug the deadlock condition, as well as a possible recovery from that state. The fourth expiry “Debug” reset should be used in any case, where debug information must be retained through the resulting reset. Note that within the Cortex-R5 clusters, debug logic is not retained through the system reset, even though the main DFD logic is not reset. Before SC7 entry, if SPE remains active, the SPE WDT third expiry must be enabled as a wake event by SPE firmware. A wake event must occur before a WDT L2 Reset request (fourth expiry) can be properly handled. This wake event should then result in a wait loop that causes the fourth expiry. A WDT L1b Reset is issued after the fifth expiry of a given WDT in the SoC domain or SPE WDT. This is an internal system reset that resets the entire AP, except for the rst_status register, fuse mirror logic and VFMON sensor logic. DFD logic does not persist through this WDT reset and RAM Dump is not performed. Another option for the fifth expiry of a given WDT is a request to the PMIC to issue an external reset. This can be done in one of two ways. The first is by setting SCRATCH5_0[1] or SCRATCH5_0[0] (the former for AO WDT, the latter for SoC WDT) in PMC to indicate to Boot ROM to issue a SFT_RST command to the PMIC through I2C on the following boot. The second is to set the PMIC_SEQ_EN control (through the *_WDT_OUT_RST_EN register fields) to the WDT’s Reset
- FSM so that it issues a sideband WDT_POR_RESET_OUT sideband signal. Which is appropriate
depends on which PMIC is in use on the platform and what features it supports.
- Software Reset Requests
There is one main software reset in the PMC and the many software resets throughout the various CAR modules that can reset the AP. The system-level software reset found in the PMC is self-clearing in hardware because the reset outputs also clear the registers that trigger them. They require the use of a Reset Request FSM. The rst_ack is used indirectly in the handshake, as the reset output clears the request. But the FSM

- PMC Functional Description
is still effective, as the request comes in, the reset is asserted and clears the request, which triggers the counter and reset deassertion.
- HSM Reset Request
If SCE identifies a safety error as fatal, it indicates to HSM that it must trigger an internal system reset. The level of this reset is consistent with a WDT L2 Reset.
- Power Management Reset Requests
As part of any power-management sequence where power is removed from one or more partitions, one or more resets to those partitions must be asserted before they are repowered. Reset must not be asserted until the first step of the exit sequence before power is restored. The PMC asserts reset to all SoC logic upon SC7 wake. Everything in the AO blocks will persist through this reset. The reset from PMC to CAR includes this source so that everything downstream from CAR appears as if it is waking from cold boot upon reset deassertion. Then boot code handles differentiations in boot sequencing. The SC7 wake (or warm) reset must not be asserted on SC7 entry. SC7 debug mode cannot be used. This is because the AUTHENTICATION_INTERFACE_DISABLE bit is cleared and a debugger can no longer connect. Also, there are versions of SC7 that power gate portions of the SPE, which require power gate reset sequencing by AO CAR in the AO cluster. The SC7 sequencer in PMC must sequence the SC7 wake reset, as well as Sleep signals to RAMs, power gates, and clamps. On SC7 exit, the PG partitions in VDD_SOC remain in the state in which they entered SC7. This means that the SC7 sequencer does not control the Sleep signals to those
- RAMs or release the clamps and power FETs in those domains that were power gated when SC7
was entered. Since the reset default of the software resets to those partitions is de-asserted, the
- SC7 boot code must assert those resets BEFORE beginning the wake sequences to request that
the sleep enables be released. As well the clamps must be released, taking the RAMs out of sleep, then de-asserting those resets. The hardware does not have the reset asserted automatically. Firmware running on the SPE uses the bypass mode that is in the SC7 wake logic to control the
- SC7 wake warm reset used to create the warm resets to CAR. Like SC7 wake, the SPE firmware
must know of the software reset assertion for PG partitions on VDD_SOC and sequence those partitions out of power gated state appropriately.
- Routing System Reset Sources to HSM/SCE as Faults
SCE must be aware that a system-level reset request has been made, so that if the reset logic does not assert the associated system-level reset, an error can be flagged. For CAR software resets, this does not apply, as the reset register can be polled to see the status of the reset and an error would be detectable. To achieve this requirement, a fault must be sent to HSM/SCE along with any system-level reset requests.

- PMC Functional Description
#### 4.2.2.2 PMC System Reset Generation
This section describes the generation of system level resets. The PMC contains the Level 0–Level 2 system reset generation. PMC handles many of the AP power management states, and the system-level reset sources must to be tied closely to that logic so that voltage controls and resets are closely aligned. The PMC reset outputs go to CAR or AO CAR for further reset sequencing and unit reset generation. The figure below shows the various reset sources and resulting resets generated by PMC. The 32 kHz clock is referred to as pmc_clk. l1acoldsyncrst_ao_clk_m_srstn and l1acoldsyncrst_pmc_clk_srstn both are generated to fully synchronize reset assertion to ao_clk_m and pmc_clk, respectively. These resets are used for the L0 and L1a asynchronous reset generation logic. L2coldsyncrst_ao_clk_m_srstn is generated to add in the async assertion of L2 reset sources so that all security reset enables are cleared on all cold reset events.
**Figure 4.4 PMC System-Level Reset Generation**
If logic receives a Level N reset, the highest level reset source that clears it is a Level N reset source. So Level 0 is only from a Level 0 source, Level 1 is Level 0 or 1, and so on. All pmc_pclk domain resets must use a reset synchronizer to synchronize de-assert on to the destination clock domain and for DFT bypass purposes. All resets leaving PMC to go to other modules must use reset synchronizers at the destination. The pmc_clk domain (32 kHz) resets use only a test mux. This is sufficient because all reset sources in PMC are already synchronized to pmc_clk and guaranteed to be a minimum of two pmc_clk cycles wide. The PMC contains many scratch registers that can be used across system reset. Most are not reset and by a cycling of the AO rail invalidates

- PMC Functional Description
them. The registers scratch0_0 and scratch1_0 are special cases that are cleared by Level1b reset. They are retained through the software Main Reset, WDT L2 Reset, and SC7 reset, but cleared by all other system reset sources.
##### 4.2.2.2.1 PMC Reset FSMs
- The PMC instantiates Reset FSMs to perform the handshakes with the reset requestors to
generate the resulting reset sources. The one variant of the Reset FSM contains all the necessary DFD logic. All instances use the same Reset FSM. Those that do not interact with the RAM Dump FSM ties off the DFD inputs.
- System Reset Levels
System resets and system reset sources are organized into reset levels. For reset sources, the level indicates the amount of state that is cleared on the resulting reset assertion, as well as priority of the reset source. For system resets, the reset level corresponds to the highest level reset source that asserts the reset. Each system reset source is associated with a reset level. This is shown in the following table. The lower the level of the reset source, the less state that persists through that reset in the AP. It also denotes a prioritized ordering of reset sources within a reset level. Viewed at the system level, Level 1a–1c sources all produce an identical result, other than the source captured in the rst_status register. However, within the PMC, the reset generation logic is prioritized from Level 1a– 1c. A Level 1a reset source clears the logic that generates the Level 1b and 1c resets, a Level 1b reset source clears the logic that generates the Level 1c resets, and so on. This allows multiple Level 1 sources to arrive within the time it takes to reboot the system. When BPMP reset is released, the lowest level reset source is what is ultimately identified in the rst_status register. So, for example, if one of the SoC WDTs issues a WDT L1b Reset request, that sequence turns on. Then a legacy AOTAG reset request comes in (since its logic was not reset by the WDT reset request). The
- PMC reset logic clears out the WDT L1B Reset request and the sensor reset request takes
precedence (the only exception is SOC_THERM, which uses an L2 reset without latching the request in PMC–the prioritization only works until any source, even lower priority, asserts the reset to SOC_THERM). Boot ROM checks the rst_status register and it indicates a sensor reset, so steps are taken to turn off, immediately. If they were treated at an identical level, the same sequence would end up with completing a full boot as WDT L1B Reset, and then the thermal sensor retriggering, resulting in a second reboot before shutdown. This ends up delaying the time it takes to turn off, which further risks damage to the AP.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.5 System Reset Levels**
System resets are then numbered with a reset level corresponding to the highest level reset source that causes the reset to assert. Each ascending reset level includes more reset sources. For example, a register using a Level 0 reset is only cleared by the external power on reset asserting (Level 0 reset source). A register using a Level 1 reset is additionally cleared by all Level 1 sources (Level 1a–Level 1c), as well as the external power on reset. Warm reset compared to cold reset is determined by the inclusion of the SC7 wake reset. If it does not assert with the SC7 wake reset, it is cold and vice versa. For example, a Cold Level 1 reset is asserted by Level 0 – 1 reset sources. A Warm Level 1 reset is asserted by those same sources, but also by SC7 wake reset. The following figure illustrates the system resets inside of PMC. This shows the differentiation between Level 1 sources that was referred to preceding.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.6 System Reset Levels Inside the PMC**
The system reset levels external to PMC are illustrated in the following figure. The table shows all the reset levels, and which reset sources are included in each of those levels. As shown, state on a Level 2 reset is cleared by any system level cold reset source. State on a Level 1 reset is cleared by any system level cold reset source other than an L2 Reset source. State on a Level 0 reset is only cleared by external reset. State on a warm reset is additionally cleared by SC7 reset exit, since power to the downstream modules is lost.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.7 System Reset Levels External to the PMC**
- Reset Request FSM
- The Reset Request FSM must be used to service all reset requestors other than SYS_RESET_N
(sequenced by the PMIC) and warm reset (sequenced by the SC7 FSM). It is an FSM that generates a reset using a 4-phase request/acknowledge handshake with the reset requestor or a sideband reset request to the PMIC. There is also an optional state that holds off reset assertion until a handshake is complete with a DFD sequencer. This allows for debug features such as RAM Dump to be performed before reset is asserted. The state resets to IDLE. When an rst_req comes in, the FSM enters the WAIT_PG_IDLE state. This state sets the reset2pg_rst_pending signal to the PMC PG FSM to indicate it should finish its current action and waits four 32K clock cycles for the PG FSM to return to its idle state. Then the
- FSM checks the state of the dfdwait_en bit. If dfdwait_en is set, the state changes to
WAIT_FOR_DFD. If in WAIT_FOR_DFD, it waits to receive acknowledgment from the DFD sequencer logic that its RAM Dump sequence is complete and reset can be issued. If dfdwait_en is not set, OR if acknowledgment has been received from the DFD sequencer, the FSM checks if the pmic_seq_en bit is set. If enabled, it asserts pmic_seq_req and awaits a pmic_seq_ack before proceeding. pmic_seq_req is used to assert WDT_RESET_OUT_OB_ and pmic_seq_ack is tied to 1’b0, so that

- PMC Functional Description
once pmic_seq_req is asserted, it does not de-assert until the Reset FSM is reset. This only occurs if the requested external L0 reset is asserted, or if another lower-level reset asserts. All of the sequence options progress through WAIT_CLK_STOP before moving to RESET_ASSERT. This asserts a clk_stop signal to the CAR logic to gate the clocks to domains on lower-level resets (i.e., L0 and/or L1) that remains active through the reset to hide glitching on their clocks. The
- WAIT_CLK_STOP then waits a programmable number of 32K clock cycles (as specified in
- WAIT_STOP_CLK_COUNTER register) before moving to RESET_ASSERT at which point rst_ack is
asserted. This also corresponds to reset assertion, as the reset should be an inverted copy of rst_ack. This causes the requesting logic to de-assert its request. Once that reaches the FSM, the state changes to WAIT_DEASSERT and a counter is enabled. Once the counter has counted cntval cycles (can be set in software or tied in Hardware), the state changes back to IDLE and rst_ack (and the corresponding reset) is de-asserted. The WAIT_PMIC_SEQ and WAIT_FOR_DFD states must have a timeout with both a software programmable enable and duration. The enable is due to the fact certain use cases may not want to time out (using for an external sideband reset request, for example).
##### 4.2.2.2.2 PMC System Reset Sequencing
Some initial reset sequencing is done in PMC. The following sections detail that sequencing logic.
- AO Clamp Delay
An explicit delay of one 32K cycle is applied to the L1 warm and L2 warm reset outputs of PMC. This is because it takes one 32K cycle after L2 cold reset is de-asserted for the AO clamp enable to be released. It is important that the SoC module resets be delayed such that they are not released while the clamps are still enabled.
#### 4.2.2.3 Reset Generation Logic
- The following table summarizes various reset requests coming to PMC and requests generated
within PMC and the level of system reset each of the requests can raise.
- Table 4.18 Reset Sources to Reset Level Mapping
- Reset Sources
- Level of reset generated in PMC
- SYS_RESET_N
External chip reset generates L0.

- PMC Functional Description
- Reset Sources
- Level of reset generated in PMC
- VDD_RTC VRefRO Power bad fault
- Fuse_crc_check
- VDD_SOC VMON faults
- OSC and 32 kHz frequency faults (including software
based OSCRSTREQ)
- BPMP Boot Fault Error
- Multiple POD reset requests
- Multiple SCPM reset requests
- FSI FMON reset request and FSI VrefRO power bad
fault
- FSI VMON reset request
- Internal L0 async reset
There is L0 in the RST_LEVEL field. 32 kHz clock stoppage fault
- VDD_RTC VRefRO power bad fault
- Internal L1A async reset
- SOC_THERM thermal Shut down (can also issue
external L0 reset as part of shut down sequence)
- FSI THERM thermal shutdown (can also issue
external L0 reset as part of shut down sequence)
- VDD_CPU0, VDD_SOC and VDD_FSI voltage faults
- OSC and 32 kHz frequency faults
- BPMP safety faults
- Fuse_crc_check
- PSC software Reset
- L1A legacy reset
- Various WDT’s fifth expiry (Existing ones plus DCE,
- FSI, and PSC requests)
- L1B legacy reset
- Software Main reset request
- L1C legacy reset
- Reset request from HSM (FSI_HSM)
- Various WDT’s fourth expiry (Existing ones plus DCE
and PSC requests in Orin)
- CSITE SW-based reset
- L2 legacy reset
##### 4.2.2.3.1 PMC Reset Generation
The PMC contains the Level 0 – Level 2 system reset generation logic. PMC handles much of the AP power management states, and the system-level reset sources need to be tied closely to that logic so that voltage controls and resets are closely aligned. The PMC reset outputs go to CAR or AO CAR for further reset sequencing and unit reset generation. The figure below shows the various reset sources and resulting resets generated by PMC. The 32 kHz clock is referred to as “pmc_clk”.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.8 PMC System Level Reset Generation**
If logic receives a Level N reset, the highest-level reset source that clears it is a Level N reset source. So, Level 0 is only from a Level 0 source, Level 1 is Level 0 or 1, and so on.
- PMC Reset FSMs
PMC instantiates Reset FSMs to perform the handshakes with the reset requestors to generate the resulting reset sources. All instances will use the same Reset FSM, and those that do not interact with the RAM Dump FSM will tie off the DFD inputs as shown below
**Figure 4.9 Reset FSM Tied off for Instances w/o RAM Dump FSM Handshake**

- PMC Functional Description
- The dfdwait_en input is tied to 1’b0; thereby disabling the DFD sequence of the FSM. The
dfdrst_ack is tied to 1’b1 as if an ack was being received. This is redundant, since dfdwait_en is tied low, but is cleaner. For FSM, which require RAMDUMP support, dfdwait_en = global_dbgen | global_spiden; Also, the pmic_seq_en is used to enable the sequence to issue a sideband PMIC reset request. The Reset FSM must be connected so that pmic_seq_en is also disabled, which requires the inputs to be tied off as shown in the figure below.
**Figure 4.10 Reset FSM Tied Off for Instances w/o PMIC Sideband Reset**
- Internal Level 0 Reset Generation
This SoC supports an internal mechanism to trigger a chip wide reset (equivalent to SYS_RST_N assertion) to recover from specific security hardware attacks. The following system errors can generate this internal reset assertion (l0_vfsensor_async_rst_n as show in the figure below).
- Faults detected by 32 kHz FMON
- Faults detected by OSC (XTAL) FMON
Fault indication from VDD_SOC voltage monitor.
- Voltage fault on the VDD_RTC reference Oscillator (VrefRO) used for OSC and 32 kHz clock
monitoring. Fuse CRC error. BPMP Boot Fault error.
- POD (Power On detector) cells on VDD_RTC, VDD_SOC, VDD_CPU, VDD_GPU, VDD_CV and
- VDD_FSI rails
- SCPM (Canary Path Monitor) on SOC_XTAL, AON_XTAL, BPMP_R5, PSC_SE clocks,
consolidated reset from FSI SCPMs (Cortex-R5/Fabric clock and Xtal)
- FSI FMON faults include XTAL FMON, other FSI clock FMON, and FSI VrefRO power bad
indication
- FSI VMON
- Generation of the VrefRO voltage fault, power_bad, originates from the VrefRO itself. The
power_ok output of the VrefRO is not sticky, so we need to make it sticky to capture temporary attacks during boot while the reset request mechanism is still disabled. This is shown below. This

- PMC Functional Description
is done by latching the power_ok output. When power_ok goes low, we set the latch. When the resulting reset occurs, we reset the latch. A software disable signal, sw_sc7_dis (SW_SC7_DIS bit in
- PMC_IMPL_ASYNC_RST_SC7_CONFIG_0 register), is added so we can mask expected transitions of
power_ok to 1’b0 by holding the latch in reset. This bit needs to be set by software before SC7 entry, and then is cleared by HW upon SC7 exit when the warm reset de-asserts. The synchronizer for the latch’s reset also is cleared by L0 cold reset, so that when we expect power to be cycled (external L0 reset), the power_bad is masked through the time we expect the rail to be ramping up.
**Figure 4.11 VrefRO power_bad Generation**
Implementation of the power_ok latch circuit that is used is done with three flip-flops, as shown in the figure below.
- When the latch has its reset de-asserted,
The top flip-flop will capture any rising edge of power_ok that occurs, which is later than required. The middle flip-flop will capture any falling edge of power_ok that happens during functional operation. The bottom flip-flop will capture a flat-lined power_ok (i.e., no rising or falling edge) or will capture the late power_ok assertion more quickly, if it is delayed longer than that first rising edge of ao_clk_m. The test muxes on the clocks of the top two flip-flops puts a clock on those flops to enable scan. Because of the l1warm reset usage on the reset path of the latch, the VrefRO power bad is masked whenever l1warm reset is asserted. It is unmasked once the reset is released. During this window, we rely on OSC and 32KHz FMONs to detect any deviations in the VrefRO clock frequency.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.12 SR Latching Circuit**
- VFMON/BPMP/VREFRO/FUSECRC Reset Sources
Detection of the faults (i.e FMON, VMON Power bad, fuse_crc and BPMP) is enabled by default on L2 cold/warm de-assertion. Boot ROM enables the propagation of these faults by first setting the desired async reset level (in PMC_IMPL_L0L1A_RST_LEVEL_EN_0) and then setting the individual enable configuration bits (in PMC_IMPL_L0L1A_RST_SOURCE_EN_0 register and the FMON configuration registers) so that an internal reset can be generated in the event of any of these faults. This must be done in the preceding specified order, because the L1A Reset FSM sources are not gated by the PMC_IMPL_L0L1A_RST_LEVEL_EN_0 setting, so if you enable one of the requests that can result in an L1A Reset FSM, it can immediately assert and may preempt your ability to select the L0 async reset path. Besides the L0 async resets, the preceding reset structure also supports a capability to generate asynchronous L1A reset from specific faults. PMC supports individual fuses to enable the asynchronous L0 and L1A reset assertion. This is applicable to all L0/L1A async reset sources except POD and SCPMs.( For POD and SCPMs, the reset is enabled by default). The default state of the fuse bits will be to disable both the L0/L1A async reset paths. These fuses are read by Boot ROM to help in the determination of whether to set the L0 or L1a async reset enables or not (they may be ignored if Fuse CRC check fails). If the L0 or L1a async resets are to be used, the global L0 async and L1a async enable bits only gate the async reset paths. Those going to an L1a Reset FSM are not gated. For this reason, the global bits

- PMC Functional Description
must be set BEFORE the individual software enables are set to ensure the L0 and L1a async resets are prioritized properly vs the L1a FSM resets. Note that the sticky bit flops and detection logic are reset using l1acoldsyncrst_*_srstn. These are fully synchronized to the 32K clock. This is to ensure that the reset assertion is not cleared too quickly by a combinatorial loop. Having this separate reset that requires 32K clock eliminates the combinatorial loop while propagating the secure reset assertion asynchronously. If the 32K clock is too slow, or absent, then the chip will go into reset while this reset request is never cleared. If the 32K clock is restored, then this reset request will be cleared and the chip will subsequently come out of reset and boot normally. The software enable bits must use l2acoldsyncrst_*_srstn so that the enable is cleared on any cold reset event. All these reset sources are gated using pre_ist_mode to ensure that these sources do not trigger any reset during IST.
- POD Reset Sources
POD and SCPM are new reset sources capable of generating L0 async reset. There are seven new reset sources from various PODs:
- VDD_SOC POD
- VDD_CPU POD (There are three VDD_CPU PODs, but the error outputs are combined and
sent as a single reset request to PMC)
- VDD_GPU POD
- VDD_CV POD (There are three VDD_CV PODs due to Physical design constraints)
- VDD_RTC POD
- VDD_FSI POD
Each of these POD reset outputs (except VDD_RTC POD) can be masked with “reset mask” control that is implemented in the PMC_IMPL register page. The mask control is implemented on L2 cold reset to ensure the reset path is enabled on all cold reset cycles. Only VDD_RTC POD does not have any such reset mask control i.e., this reset path is always enabled (when other enable control from I/O and secure JTAG are set). These reset requests from PODs are not gated by the L0L1A_RESET_LEVEL_EN control as shown in the preceding figure.
- SCPM Reset Sources
The following are the reset sources from the following SCPMs:
- AON_XTAL_SCPM
- SOC_XTAL_SCPM
- BPMP_CLK_SCPM
- PSC_CLK_SCPM
- FSI SCPMs (single reset request to PMC)

- PMC Functional Description
Each of these SCPM reset outputs can be individually masked with “reset mask” control, which is implemented in PMC on L2cold reset. Detection of faults from various SCPMs can be enabled based on the IO-based disable mechanism during bring up. A reset mask register is also implemented with reset default to keep the SCPM in enabled state. This is to ensure that the detection is enabled on all cold reset cycles. This ENABLE control for AON_XTAL and BPMP_XTAL is on the L2 cold reset in the PMC_IMPL page and in the proper configuration spaces for other SCPMs.
- These reset requests from SCPMs are not gated by the L0L1A_RESET_LEVEL_EN control as shown
in the preceding figure. Requirements to ensure the outputs stick around until reset assertion:
- Note that the output from POD is a pulse. However, for the secure DFT reset implemented
mentioned in the section "DFT and DFD in Reset Logic", the internally generated system reset requests that could arise from glitch attacks i.e., POD, SCPM, VFMON etc. linger until the functional path is selected post fuse sensing using the test_mode_special_bypass_secure control. A sticky bit on L0 reset is implemented so that the POD error is not lost. This sticky bit is implemented post the reset mask. It uses runs on osc_clk with L0 reset. The output of SCPM is already sticky. It can only be cleared with a system reset. So, if an error is triggered from SCPM module, it stays around until fuse sensing window is complete and once the functional path is unmasked, the reset takes place.
- VMON, FMON status registers already ensure the status sticks around as part of legacy
architecture. The VFMONs are enabled by default and the error status is logged. When Boot ROM enables the reset path (based on fuse) for OSC and 32 kHz FMONs. If the sticky error status is already logged, L0 reset would trigger.
- Boot ROM triggers L0 reset by writing to the SW_OSCRSTREQ field of
PMC_IMPL_L0L1A_RST_SOURCE_EN register. POD and SCPM reset requests are not gated by IST mode flag. They are disabled using Secure JTAG mechanism during pre-IST software stage. In addition, once ist_mode flag is set, all functional resets are bypassed using test_mode_special_bypass_secure.
- Micro Architecture - Reset Combination loop
- For all reset sources that can generate L0/L1A async resets, following latching circuit is
implemented within PMC. If a L0 async reset source raises an error, that immediately asserts the system-wide reset. This in turn immediately clears out the reset source (FMON, VMON, SCPMs, BPMP /FSI sources etc.), and then clear the reset assertion. To break this combinatorial loop, this latching circuit is implemented in PMC. The reset input /clear path to the latching circuit is passed through a synchronizer so that the reset input is delayed by at least two clock cycles.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.13 Async Reset Latch**
The SR latch unit in the preceding figure is same as what is implemented for VrefRO power bad as shown in the SR Latching Circuit figure preceding.
- Level 1a Reset Source Generation
This section details the generation of the combined Level 1a reset source that is fed to PMC’s system reset generation block. This is a combination of the Thermtrip-related sources, PSC software-based request. and VFMON-related sources. New reset sources i.e., PSC SW-based request and FSI THERM reset request to generate L1A reset is an addition. The figure below shows the logic required to generate the Level 1a reset source. The various sources are OR-ed together to create separate reset requests for thermal sensor, PSC software, and VFMON. These reset requests go to associated Reset Request FSMs. There is no acknowledge with this request, but the requesting logic is self-clearing. The rst_ack is inverted to become the internal Level 1a reset source. As mentioned, the logic that generates the requests is self-clearing, shown in the SR Latching Circuit figure by the fact that the the Level 1a resets the u_vfmon modules. Higher-level resets clear the other sources such as SOC_THERM (L2 warm) and PSC software (L2 warm). The direct_thermtrip is latched, so this does not matter. However, the legacy thermtrip is not latched, so the prioritization of L1a SOC_THERM legacy reset only works until another L1 or L2 reset source asserts. The thermal sensor (SOC_THERM) resets will eventually result in an external Level 0 reset, whether through the current method of triggering a sideband SHDN signal to the PMIC or through the legacy method of issuing I2C commands from Boot ROM on the following boot. Note that for PSC software Reset, the reset request from PSC must be latched in PMC on a 1a reset flop so that another L1b, L1C or L2 resets will not clear the reset request i.e even if PSC

- PMC Functional Description
request comes late enough with respect to other lower priority L1 or L2 requests, PSC software request is not dropped. VFMON sensor reset always results in an internal L1 reset to the AP. All synchronizers and states associated with the reset generation itself are cleared by Level 0 resets to ensure minimum assertion widths of the requests through the synchronizers. The configuration state is only lost by the external reset. This also ensures the sideband SHDN logic is not cleared prematurely.
- Since the sideband SHDN method is quicker than a RESET_OUT request (no sequenced shut down
in the PMIC for SHDN), the pmic_seq_en input is tied off to 1’b0, and the pmic_seq_req output is unconnected. The pmic_seq_ack is also tied to 1’b0 and is completely unused. A mechanism is supported to trigger asynchronous L1A reset due to VrefRO power off condition as well as stoppage of 32 kHz clock. This ensures that clock monitoring architecture is robust both from the perspective of fault detection as well as resultant actions.
- Individual bits of PMC_IMPL_L1A_ASYNC_RST_EN register can be programmed to enable each of
the HW signals causing L1A asynchronous reset assertion. The sources for this asynchronous L1a reset are cleared using l1acoldsyncrst_*_srstn, which are fully synchronous to pmc_clk. This ensures that the chip is put into a safe reset state if the 32K clock is too slow or absent, but avoids a combinatorial loop that clears the reset assertion too quickly to be propagated. The figure below also shows the l1afusecrc_rstreq and l1abpmp_rstreq that go to Reset FSMs. It shows the IST masking of reset requests. The reset request is masked off once pre_ist_mode is set and ist_l1l2_disable = 4’b1010. Because of the synchronous reset used for L1a Async Reset, all Reset FSM CNTVAL settings must be set to 0x4 or higher. This avoids double-reset assertion and assures that the reset requests are properly masked in IST mode. For closely spaced L1a reset requests, the first request will be the one reported in the RST_STATUS register. For simultaneous L1a requests, the Sensor (SOC_THERM) reset must be highest priority, PSC software, followed by VFMON. This is because PSC software, VFMON is an internal reset, while Sensor reset will result in a shutdown event, which we must process more quickly. These are followed in priority by BPMP Boot and Fuse CRC L1a reset requests. Ensure that reset sources are prioritized as specified within a reset level. This includes the first reset taking priority, as well as prioritization when requests are simultaneous.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.14 Level 1a Reset Source Generation Logic**
**Figure 4.15 Level 1 Reset Timing Diagram**
The figure below shows a timing diagram for a Level 1 reset sequence, which is considered the golden version.
- Level 1b Reset Source Generation
This section details the generation of the combined Level 1b reset source that is fed to PMC’s system reset generation block. This is a combination of all the WDT L1b Reset sources. PSC WDT fifth expiry, DCE WDT fifth expiry, and multiple FSI WDT (one per core) fifth expiry reset request are new L1B reset sources.

- PMC Functional Description
- The figure below shows the logic required to generate the Level 1b reset source. Each WDT
instance has a request interface to the PMC. Each goes to its own Reset Request FSM. The WDT instances in SoC are self-cleared by the resulting Level 2 warm reset (and the SPE WDT on L2 cold reset, AON WDT on L1 cold reset). Therefore, the rst_ack does not require to connect directly back to those instances. The NOR of all the rst_ack signals is the consolidated WDT POR Reset to the u_rst block. Each individual rst_ack also goes to the rst_status register so that the specific WDT source can be captured. As mentioned, the logic that generates the requests is self-clearing, shown in the figure below by the fact that the WDT instances are reset by the Level 2 (except AON WDT) reset. All synchronizers and state associated with the reset generation itself are cleared by Level 1a resets to ensure minimum assertion widths of the requests through the synchronizers. The configuration state is only lost by a lower-level reset. The WDT L1b Reset FSMs can also be configured to issue an external PMIC reset request. If using a PMIC that does not support a sideband reset request, this must be done through Boot ROM by programming scratch registers in PMC to indicate to Boot ROM that L1 reset level must result in an I2C sequence being sent to the PMIC. This scratch register space would be populated with a PMIC SFT_RST command as the resulting I2C sequence. If using a PMIC that does support a RESET_IN sideband signal, the pmic_seq_en input must be set to 1’b1. If this is enabled, a pmic_seq_req will be sent to logic that asserts the WDT_POR_RESET_OUT pin of the AP (connected to RESET_IN of the PMIC). The pmic_seq_req signals of the various FSMs are OR-ed together to create one request. The pmic_seq_ack is tied to 1’b0 so that the FSM will not issue an internal reset in this case and waits for the external reset to arrive, once WDT_POR_RESET_OUT is asserted. The enable for the WAIT_PMIC_SEQ state must also be disabled to ensure that a timeout does not result in an internal reset being issued.
- Note that the SOC-to-AO clamp control is reset to clamp enabled when any cold reset source
asserts (it uses L2 cold reset). This results in the reset request being de-asserted by the clamp before the source receiving the reset/ack and de-asserting its request. To guarantee that no double-pulses occur on the resulting reset (this would occur if the clamp forcing the request off causes the FSM to de-assert, reset and releases the clamp enable while the reset request from the source is still asserted behind the clamp), the CNTVAL value for those particular sources can be used to extend the de-asserting reset so that de-assertion does not occur until after the source has cleared its request. Also, because of the synchronous reset for the L0 and L1a async reset- related logic, all Reset FSM CNTVAL settings must be set to 0x4 or higher to avoid double-reset assertion. The figure below also shows the IST masking of reset requests. The reset request is masked off once pre_ist_mode is set and ist_l1l2_disable = 4’b1010. It also includes additional reset request masking to prevent L1B resets when RAM Dump is enabled. If ramdump_en = 1’b1 and ramdump_l1_disable = 4’b1010, then L1b reset requests are masked to 1’b0. This can be used if both L2 resets with RAM Dump and L1b WDT resets are enabled to prevent a fifth expiry of the WDT from interfering with an ongoing RAM Dump.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.16 Level 1b Reset Source Generation Logic**
The figure preceding shows a timing diagram for a Level 1 reset sequence. For closely spaced reset requests, the first request will be the one reported in the RST_STATUS register. Ensure that reset source prioritization is correct within L1b reset. Ensure that reset sources are prioritized as specified within a reset level. This includes the first reset taking priority, as well as prioritization when requests are simultaneous.
- Level 1c Reset Source Generation
This section details the generation of the Level 1c reset source that is fed to PMC’s system reset generation block. This is the software Main Reset. The figure below shows the logic required to generate the Level 1c reset source. The software Main Reset register (mainswrst_rst) is synchronized and connected to the rst_req input of the Reset Request FSM. The register is self- cleared by the resulting reset, so the rst_ack does not need to connect directly back to it. The rst_ack signal is inverted and becomes the Level 1c software Main Reset to the u_rst block. The rst_ack also goes to the rst_status register so that the MAINSWRST source can be captured. This reset request can be masked using a fuse (combined (OR-ed) with production_mode fuse to improve resiliency). On preproduction, by default, the reset request is disabled. Only when the fuse is burnt or when production_mode is burnt, Reset FSM for SWMAINRST can be triggered.

- PMC Functional Description
As mentioned, the logic that generates the request is self-clearing, shown in the following figure by the fact that the Level 1c reset clears mainswrst_rst. All synchronizers and state associated with the reset generation itself are cleared by Level 1b resets to ensure minimum assertion widths of the requests through the synchronizers and that configuration state is only lost by a lower-level reset. This can also be configured to issue an external PMIC reset request. If using a PMIC that does not support a sideband reset request, this must be done by programming scratch registers in PMC to indicate to Boot ROM that the WDT POR Reset must result in an I2C sequence being sent to the
- PMIC. This scratch register space would be populated with a PMIC SFT_RST command as the
resulting I2C sequence. If using a PMIC that does support a RESET_IN sideband signal, the pmic_seq_en input must be set to 1’b1. If this is enabled, a pmic_seq_req will be sent to logic that asserts the WDT_POR_RESET_OUT pin of the AP (connected to RESET_IN of the PMIC). The pmic_seq_ack is tied to 1’b0 so that the FSM will not issue an internal reset in this case and waits for the external reset to arrive, once WDT_POR_RESET_OUT is asserted. The enable for the WAIT_PMIC_SEQ state must also be disabled to ensure that a timeout doesn’t result in an internal reset being issued. Because of the synchronous reset for the L0 and L1a async reset-related logic, all Reset FSM CNTVAL settings must be set to 0x4 or higher to avoid double-reset assertion.
**Figure 4.17 Level 1c Reset Source Generation Logic**
The figure preceding also shows the IST masking of reset requests. The reset request is masked off once pre_ist_mode is set and ist_l1l2_disable = 4’b1010.
- Level 2 Reset Source Generation
This section details the generation of the combined Level 2 reset source that is fed to PMC’s system reset generation block. This is a combination of all the WDT L2 Reset sources. PSC WDT fourth expiry, DCE WDT fourth expiry, and FSI WDTs (one per core) fourth expiry reset request are new L2 reset sources.

- PMC Functional Description
The FSI HSM reset request is also one of the sources of L2 reset. A software-based L2 reset is added to this cone of this logic. The register is in CSITE configuration space and will be a self- clearing reset. This reset is added in PMC to ease out debug.
- The figure below shows the logic required to generate the combined WDT L2 Reset. Each WDT
instance has a request/acknowledge interface with PMC. Each goes to its own Reset Request FSM. The NOR of all of the rst_ack signals is the consolidated WDT L2 Reset to the u_rst block. Each individual rst_ack goes to the rst_status register so that the specific WDT source can be captured. All synchronizers and state associated with the reset generation itself are cleared by Level 1c resets to ensure minimum assertion widths of the requests through the synchronizers and that configuration state is only lost by a lower-level reset. Only one RAM Dump DFD Sequencer is required, since only the first WDT L2 Reset request needs to be fully serviced. Once the first request is sent, the DFD sequencer will perform the proper sequence, send its acknowledge to all Reset Request FSMs. This allows reset to proceed and all outstanding WDTs to clear their reset requests. The minimum reset assertion width inherent in the FSM (synchronization of the request de-asserting plus two cycles to progress through FSM states to reset de-assertion) ensures that even multiple WDT reset requests result in only one reset assertion, and the minimum CNTVAL setting of 4 required for L2 resets only further ensures that. The DFD sequencer will also not accept any further requests until either a software handshake occurs, or a POR reset clears the state to IDLE. Note that only AO WDT reset requests do not support RAM Dump; therefore, they do not interact with the RAM Dump DFD Sequencer and their dfdwait_en inputs are tied low. The CSITE SW-based L2 request supports RAM Dump.
- Note that the SOC-to-AO clamp control is reset to clamp enabled when any cold reset source
asserts (it uses L2 cold reset), which could result in the reset request being de-asserted by the clamp before the source receiving the reset/ack and de-asserting its request. To guarantee that no double-pulses occur on the resulting reset (this would occur if the clamp forcing the request off causes the FSM to de-assert, reset and releases the clamp enable while the reset request from the source is still asserted behind the clamp), the CNTVAL value for those particular sources can be used to extend the de-asserting reset so that de-assertion does not occur until after the source has cleared its request. The current expectation is that CNTVAL must be set to at least four when RAM Dump is enabled. Because of the synchronous reset for the L0 and L1a async reset-related logic, which requires all Reset FSM CNTVAL settings to be set to 0x4 or higher to avoid double- reset assertion, the minimum CNTVAL should be four cycles at any time. The figure below shows the IST masking of reset requests. The reset request is masked off once pre_ist_mode is set and ist_l1l2_disable = 4’b1010.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.18 Level 2 Reset Source Generation Logic**

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.19 Level 2 WDT L2 Reset Timing Diagram**
The figure preceding is a timing diagram for a Level 2 WDT reset sequence.
- RAM Dump Handshake must be software programmable. The handshakes with the RAM Dump
FSM must have a software programmable enable, as shown in the diagrams.
- Mask controls for L2 reset requests
An individual mask control is added for all the L2 reset requests that come into PMC. (PMC_IMPL_L2_SOURCE_MASK_0). This ensures that a reset source can be masked if that reset or the reset source is compromised i.e., if there is a debug scenario to mask this reset source during runtime. This register is protected with a separate SCR and is parity protected. Since this register masks the L2 reset sources, the register needs to be implemented on L1C cold reset with reset default in “unmask” state. This is ensuring there are no L2 reset loops in the reset masking path.
- WDT_POR_RESET_OUT Sideband
- By setting the correct PMIC_SEQ_EN register field, a given reset source can assert the
WDT_POR_RESET_OUT sideband output of the AP to trigger an external reset sequence. This can be done individually for software Main Reset, SoC WDT L1b Resets (fifth expiry) and AO WDT L1b

- PMC Functional Description
Reset (fifth expiry). The WDT fields must only be written at boot and another software must not access them. The software Main Reset field can be dynamically changed, if it is done before requesting the software Main Reset.
- The PMIC_RESET_REQ signal from the reset generation logic asserts WDT_POR_RESET_OUT as an
active low reset request. The PMIC (only some PMICs support this sideband) has a RESET_IN with programmable polarity, but we are fixing it as active low, which supports connectivity to the PMIC’s RESET_IN input or the warm reset input, nRESWARM. The signal is asserted without delay and held indefinitely. Once the PMIC sees its RESET_IN input held for the requisite amount of time, it will start the external power-cycle and reset sequence, which will result in assertion of our
- SYS_RESET_N input. This clears the FSM and de-assert WDT_POR_RESET_OUT at that time. The
following figure shows the logic that generates WDT_POR_RESET_OUT.
**Figure 4.20 WDT_POR_RESET_OUT Generation Logic**
The logic shown in this figure must be the default driver of the pad on all reset events. By doing so, this both drives the appropriate de-asserted value on internal reset events and will drive any external reset request with correct sequencing. If we generate a pull-up or pull-down default for the pad based on reset inputs to the pad, it can create incorrect sequencing especially if an internal reset occurs while the external reset request is processed. It must be verified that the WDT_POR_RESET_OUT sideband asserts properly when the associated PMIC_SEQ_EN is set.
- Direct Shutdown on thermtrip
PMC optionally asserts SHUTDOWN_N pin to the off-chip PMIC when a thermtrip alert triggers.
- This thermtrip alert can come either from SoC THERM or FSI THERM. PMIC treats the
SHUTDOWN_N sideband as a failsafe trigger for shutting the system down, following which the user will have to manually turn the system on by pressing the power button or equivalent inputs.
- PMC provides a configuration bit PMC_IMPL_DIRECT_THERMTRIP_CONFIG_THERMTRIP_EN to
enable the failsafe shutdown option. When this THERMTRIP_EN bit is set, PMC asserts the internal reset when it asserts SHUTDOWN_N but does not de-assert the internal reset when the source of thermtrip is cleared in HW. System software can choose to enable failsafe shutdown or continue with the BootROM-based legacy shutdown solution. PMC does not power gate CPU partitions on thermtrip alert. CPU_PWR_REQ will get de-asserted because of L1 reset, so CCPLEX will get rail-gated.

- PMC Functional Description
SHUTDOWN_N is always an active low signal. This pin is driven LOW only when the SoC wants to turn off the system. At all other times, this output is tri-stated. This flexibility allows other external platform components to assert the shutdown pin to the PMIC. The SHUTDOWN_N pin state is not affected by any internal system reset event. The pin, when asserted, reverts to its default when external chip reset (SYS_RESET_N) gets asserted or on the expiry of SHDN_ASSERT_PULSE_WIDTH counter, whichever is earlier. The DPD controls for this pad are tied OFF never to enter DPD mode.
- Note: SHUTDOWN_N output is always treated as an active low signal, and platform enables
appropriate external pull ups on these signals. If the PMIC supports an OTP option to choose the polarity of the shutdown input, it is critical that this setting is configured to enable active low operation.
- Keyword: IDM_BOOT
PMIC handles SHUTDOWN as a failsafe mechanism and ensure that it is not masked by any other input to the PMIC from the system. PMIC maintains a status of the cause for system shutdown and software would have to read the status from PMIC. At the end of a direct shutdown event,
- RST_SOURCE field in PMC_IMPL_RST_STATUS register reads as SYS_RESET_N. PMIC requires the
- SHUTDOWN_N signal to be kept asserted for a minimum de-bounce interval. This period is
programmable in the SHDN_ASSERT_PULSE_WIDTH counter. The counter runs at 32K clock and gets reset only by external chip reset.
- If PMC_IMPL_SENSOR_CTRL_ENABLE_RST is set, BootROM may restart and launch PMIC
commands during the shutdown process. To prevent this from occurring when direct shutdown is enabled, THERMTRIP_EN should override SENSOR_CTRL_ENABLE_RST. The effect of this override is illustrated further in the figures below.
- When direct shutdown is enabled, PMC asserts an internal reset request, asserts the
- SHUTDOWN_N pin and starts a counter. The internal reset request clears the source of the
thermtrip inside SOC_therm. But in this mode, the internal reset itself is not de-asserted by PMC. The SHUTDOWN_N pin is kept asserted until the counter expires, or until PMIC asserts external chip reset, whichever is earlier. If PMIC does not assert external reset before the counter expires, then PMC de-asserts the SHUTDOWN_N signal on expiry of the counter but keeps the internal reset asserted and the counter stalled. When PMIC asserts external chip reset to AP, the
- SHUTDOWN_N pin, the pulse width counter, the internal reset request, and the RST_SOURCE
register, all revert to their power-on-reset defaults. The red lines illustrate the case where PMIC asserts external chip reset to AP before the expiry of the pulse-width counter.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.21 THERMTRIP sequence**
- Table 4.19 PMC_IMPL_DIRECT_THERMTRIP_CONFIG register
- Description
- Field
- Bits
- POR
- Sof
tw are
- THERMTRIP_LOCK
0x0 R/ W
- When set to 1, locks THERMTRIP_EN control. This lock bit write-
locks all register bits that can disable or sabotage direct shutdown.
- Write-once
- Updated by secure software after setting all direct shutdown
thermtrip related registers.
- THERMTRIP_EN
0x1 R/ W
- When this bit is set, then PMC will assert SHUTDOWN_N sideband
to PMIC on a thermal sensor reset event. The system will then be shut down directly by PMIC instead of causing a shutdown through
- BootROM. This is turned on only by an external reset, similar to the
RST_SOURCE field in the same register. The thermal sensor reset request comes from SOC_therm.
- SOC_therm cannot to send a reset request while in SC7. This field
overrides PMC_SENSOR_CTRL_ENABLE_RST.
- SHDN_ASSERT_PULSE_WIDT
H 7:4 0x0 R/ W
- SHUTDOWN_N pin, once asserted by PMC, remains asserted for
these many number of 32K clock cycles. This field is cleared by external reset only.
- Programming this value to 0 will disable the “pulse” feature and
keep the SHUTDOWN_N asserted indefinitely.
- Reset due to Thermal Trigger
The “legacy thermtrip” is not supported from Boot ROM point of view. There are no HW changes planned to remove this feature. As long as THERMTRIP_EN is set, direct thermtrip takes priority over legacy mode. In addition to the direct shutdown mode, PMC also supports the legacy mode, which is not the POR usage mode. In legacy mode, PMC can be enabled to monitor thermal trigger signal, which is asserted by SOC_THERM unit when temperature goes preceding the threshold value for “thermal trip”. Setting PMC_IMPL_SENSOR_CTRL_ENABLE_RST without setting THERMTRIP_EN causes PMC to work in this mode. The status bit (PMC_IMPL_RST_STATUS) is set to indicate that thermal trigger event has happened.
- When thermal trigger is asserted, PMC resets the chip, but keeps the cause of reset (in
PMC_IMPL_RST_STATUS register). Architecturally, the reset triggered by thermal trigger results in

- PMC Functional Description
cold boot with PMC retaining the information (in PMC_IMPL_RST_STATUS) about the cause of cold boot. The behavior of thermal-triggered reset is as follows: PMC receives thermal trigger. PMC sets the status bit. If PMC_IMPL_SENSOR_CTRL [ENABLE_RST] is set, then trigger L1 reset.
- PMC de-assert resets
[IDM_BOOT] As a result of this reset, system reboots (more like cold boot). During this reboot, Boot ROM reads the cause of reset, and if it was thermtrip caused reboot, then Boot ROM performs system reset or system shutdown via PMIC or GPIO (based on a command in scratch registers that is platform and implementation specific). The figure below illustrates how a shutdown request from SOC_therm is handled by PMC in this legacy mode. In this mode, PMC asserts internal reset causing the source of the request to be cleared inside SOC_therm, which in turn de-asserts the internal reset. The SHUTDOWN_N pin (not shown in this diagram) is tri-stated with internal weak pull-up throughout this sequence.
**Figure 4.22 Legacy Mode Thermal Reset**
#### 4.2.2.4 SC7 Hardware Sequencers
For the SC7 Hardware Sequence, refer to the PMC Programming Guidelines section.

- PMC Functional Description
##### 4.2.2.4.1 SC7 State
SC7 is the power state entered when there is sufficient idleness in the system. When the system is in SC7, the SPE subsystem can enter a power gated state (Deep dormant state) under the control of AOPM module. It can be managed by software by running on SPE. The SC7 hardware sequencer is triggered by the software writing to the ON bit of PMC_IMPL_DPD_ENABLE register. The main functions supported by the SC7 hardware in the PMC are: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. Placing pads in DPD mode. Isolation of VDD_RTC inputs. Power control of VDD_CORE. Controlling the warm reset source. Handshake with AOPM module to indicate the readiness for gating AO-PG domain. OSC power control. VDD_RTC rail retention control. Ensuring warm boot RAM and logic state for SoC partitions.
##### 4.2.2.4.2 SC7 Clamp Controls
All variants of SOC2AON clamp enable controls are implemented on L2 cold reset. On L0/L1/L2 cold reset assertion, these clamps are asserted. They are de-asserted one 32 kHz cycle after the deassertion of early reset.
- Main Clamp Control
The PMC sources a main clamp control for the purpose of gating off signals that are crossing the SoC to AON domain during the SC7 hardware flow.
- Early Clamp Control
The PMC sources an “early” clamp signal primarily for gating off clocks that are entering the AO domain from the SoC domain during the SC7 hardware flow. This ensures that no clock glitches are seen when the main clamp signal’s asynchronous assertion occurs. The early clamp signal is asserted by the PMC one 32 kHz cycle before the main clamp is asserted. When SC7 is exited, the early and main clamps are de-asserted at the same time.
- Debug Clamps
The PMC sources a separate main clamp signal for the signals that are needed in debug modes. In
- SC7 debug mode, these signal sources can be left unclamped (based on the setting of
- DFD_CLAMP_OVERRIDE bit in PMC_IMPL_SC7_DEBUG_CNTRL register). Also, the PMC ensures
that the DFD version of early clamp signal, which is used for gating clocks that should not be

- PMC Functional Description
clamped during debug modes) is not asserted when the DFD_CLAMP_OVERRIDE bit is set. When this debug override bit is not set, debug clamps are identical to the main and early clamps. In addition, PMC provides a DFT version of the main clamp and early clamp. This is used for all the DFT signals crossing SoC to AON domain. In addition to the overrides present on the DFD clamp, a test_mode_special_bypass override is present on this clamp i.e if test mode special bypass signal is asserted, the DFT clamps are not asserted.
##### 4.2.2.4.3 Interface with AOPM for PG
There are two levels of handshake between the AOPM and the PMC during the SC7 hardware flow.
- SC7 Commit Indication
PMC ensures an interlock with AOPM module so that:
- Power gating actions in AO cluster occur only if SC7 is entered (SC7 commit hardware
indication).
- AOPM knows and does not trigger any more AO power gating actions (SC7 exit hardware
indication) during exit from the SC7. PMC FSM always waits for an ack to follow the request whenever the SC7 commit/exit hardware indication is toggled ensuring that the AOPM has registered the changed scenario.
- AO Power-Gating Handshake
Once SC7 commit indication is registered by the AOPM, it enters the deep dormant states. During this entry, when AOPM requires a power gating of AO logic, the PMC PG controller is requested to do this by sending a hardware request. The PMC PG controller completes the power gating actions and responds back by pulsing an ack. Similarly, power ungating actions are triggered by the AOPM by transitioning the request line low. The PMC responds back after completing the power ungating actions by asserting the ack signal.
##### 4.2.2.4.4 OSC Pad Controls
The OSC pad is under CAR control as L1 reset default. Software later programs the PMC override register (PMC_IMPL_OSC_EDPD_OVER_0_OSC_CTRL_SELECT->1) to transfer control to PMC. Once the control is transferred to PMC, it continues to be under PMC control until the next L0/L1 reset. The CLK_OK pin masks the mode detection mechanism in the pad after power-on-reset in order to mitigate risk when AVDD rail of the pad is later cycled during an SC7 transition to save power.
- CLK_OK should not be changed from its default of 0 to avoid the pad mode from changing to
bypass to crystal during a reset sequence. If the AVDD_OSC rail is not powered off and back on during a chip reset sequence, CLK_OK must be held 0 for the bypass mode to work.

- PMC Functional Description
- SOC_PWR_REQ and Power Good Timers
When the PMC receives a wake-event in SC7 state, it starts the SC7 exit by requesting the OSC- clock and SoC-rail power up. Normally, OSC-clock power-up/stabilization takes longer than the SoC- rail power-up/stabilization. To save latency, the PMC provides the option to start OSC bring up, before asserting pwr-req. Note that the SOC_PWR_REQ is asserted once the OSC_PREPWR timer expires, only if there is a Tier1 or Tier2 wake occurring. Orin does not support a SYS_CLK_REQ to an external platform clock generator like some of the previous NVIDIA designs.
- The PMC uses three timers to be able to sequence OSC pad enabling and SOC_PWR_REQ. The
- PMC_PWRGOOD_TIMER register can be programmed to configure timers (which run on 32 kHz
clock) used for the stabilization waits for OSC modules. Refer to the PMC_IMPL_PWRGOOD_TIMER_0 register for descriptions of the three timers.
- The PWRGOOD timer contains the VDD_CORE rail ramp up delay. In certain platforms,
SOC_PWR_REQ is also used as an enable to turn off other platform components. This increases the delay requirement of the PWRGOOD timer, which cannot be supported using an 8-bit timer. This PWRGOOD Timer width has a timer width to 16 bits.
- UFSHC Power Control During SC7
- The UFSHC is a third party IP from Synopsys. The IP supports two power domains i.e., Power
Switchable (PSW) and Always On (AO) power domain. This controller is capable of hibernate states (triggered by software or hardware). When UFSHC is in hibernate mode, the PSW domain can be powered off. The PSW domain is powered by the VDD_CORE rail and the power gating from the UFSHC perspective occurs only in SC7 states. The UFSHC entering hibernate state is a pre-condition to trigger SC7 flow from software.
- The PMC supports specific hooks to enable power control of the UFSHC in
- PMC_UFSHC_PWR_CNTRL register. These controls are toggled by the BPMP software as part of
entry/exit sequences to SC7.
#### 4.2.2.5 Wake Engine
##### 4.2.2.5.1 Wake Event Management
The PMC receives both internal and external wake events and coordinates the wake sequence of the SoC. Wake engine performs the following functions: Supports the required wake signaling requirements for all the wakes.
- Routes the wake events to the appropriate processors (like CPU, BPMP, SPE) in the system
based on the wake configuration reflecting the desired tier levels.

- PMC Functional Description
- Supports the coalescing of wakes to maximize the residency of the system in low-power
states. The tiered wake architecture ensures that the system is brought only up to the level where the agent who is supposed to handle the wake event is enabled. Tiers 0, 1, and 2 correspond to wakes received and consumed by AOPM/SPE, BPMP, and CPU respectively.
##### 4.2.2.5.2 Wake Coalescing
The hardware mechanism for wake coalescing is based on a hold and release approach of wakes. This approach puts a minimal burden on wake processing software to support coalescing. Even though the wakes are occurring asynchronously as far as external components are concerned, the wakes are not exposed internally until a certain wake hold window expires. Once the hold window expires, the held back wakes are exposed to the wake processing logic, and the system wakes up.
- If no wakes occurred in the hold window, the system continues to stay in the low-power
mode and the hold window timer is restarted. The hold time expiry itself is not a valid wake event. The main features of the hardware wake coalescing support include: A wake hold window can be programmed to support up to 134 seconds to handle the varying levels of delays acceptable for different wakes.
- Hooks so that software can align the hold windowing in such a way that nondeferrable
periodic wake events can occur after the hold window expiry, achieving wake alignment with the rest of the system wakes. In a typical system, there are wake sources that can tolerate varying levels of wake-up latencies. Enabling the coalescing hold window based only on the shortest tolerable latency among all of the external wakes and does not use the opportunities for longer low-power state residency offered by wakes, which have relaxed wake latency expectations. Hardware supports two time scales to generate wake hold windowing to support two programmable levels of wake latency tolerance (corresponding to group 0 and group 1 of the wake events) across all the system wakes. The more granular window corresponding to group 1 is generated by a 2^n division of the longer window.
- Software can implement a coalescing policy for the wake events in standby power states to
categorize the wake events into these two groups based on their latency tolerance levels. Any given external wake can have the following settings: Coalesced as a group 0 wake event. Coalesced as a group 1 wake event. Coalescing disabled.

- PMC Functional Description
- The wake engine also supports a Global Coalescing Enable bit (GLOBAL_COAL_EN in the
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CTRL register). This bit can be used as a global control to disable
coalescing across all wakes. The figure below shows an example of where wake events mapped into group 1 and group 0 results in longer residing in a low-power state and still abiding by their respective wake latency tolerance limits.
**Figure 4.23 Wake Event Coalescing**
In order to program the coalescing hooks in a power efficient manner, software must have visibility into the latency tolerance of different wake events.
##### 4.2.2.5.3 Time Stamping of Wake Events
- The timestamp counter is located in the AO domain. It supports the hardware mechanism to
distribute the TSC values to various units. The wake engine makes use of the TSC values in the following way: 1. A snap shot of the TSC value when a specific wake event is captured in the wake status register.
- Software uses this information to find out the amount of time a specific wake has to wait
before it results in a system wake. Software makes the required adjustments to the hold the time value. 2. 3. The time stamping logic uses the MTSC value, and hence, this feature can be used even if OSC is turned off.

- PMC Functional Description
##### 4.2.2.5.4 Wake Signaling Logic
The wake signaling logic is meant to handle all the lower level signaling aspects of external wakes. It can handle signaling aspects (like asynchronous short pulse capture) of internal wakes as well. The primary functions of this logic are:
- Wake polarity selection
- Wake debouncing
- Glitch filtering
Support for short pulse wakes. A generic filter structure is shared on every external wake event with hooks to customize for a specific platform. Certain attributes or parameters of wake signaling parameter group apply only to specific wake events.
**Figure 4.24 Wake Signaling Logic**
- Glitch Filtering
This filtering structure removes short glitches encountered by the wake pads. This part is shown inside the green dotted box in the diagram preceding. These glitches primarily result from signal integrity issues at the platform level (such as EMI, intersignal coupling). The duration of these events are <4 ns. The option is provided mainly for CAN wakes where an asynchronous capture of the wake signal is necessitated by the short pulse duration of the wake. This option can also be enabled in a scenario where the original duration at the source device of a valid wake pulse is cut short by a low going glitch. The glitch filtering structure can be enabled through a parameter specification when the wake signaling logic is enabled. (DELAY_FILTER_INST = TRUE).

- PMC Functional Description
The glitch filtering logic is meant to filter both the active and inactive going glitches as shown the diagram below. 1. Nanosecond pulses, which might be treated as a valid wake event if it is synchronized to the 32 kHz clock. Glitches associated with a valid pulse. It smooths out these glitches to create a completely valid pulse. 2.
**Figure 4.25 Glitch Filtering on Wakes**
- Asynchronous Wake Capture
The second part of the generic wake signaling logic is enabling the asynchronous wake capture (shown in the brown dotted box in the wake signaling logic figure preceding). This part of the logic must be enabled when the wake pulse duration is shorter than one 32 kHz clock period (or two 32 kHz clock period if debouncer is enabled; this is not a normal usage for short wakes). The D-flop (highlighted in green in the figure below) structure captures the external event. It self- clears after four cycles, if the set input does not persist. The latch state is synchronized to 32 kHz domain and exposed to downstream logic.

- PMC Functional Description
**Figure 4.26 Asynchronous Wake Capture Structure**
This capturing logic is enabled for CAN wakes (or any other wake with short pulse signaling requirements). This structure is enabled by setting a parameter at the time of instancing the wake logic (SR_CAPTURE_INST = TRUE). This logic is also enabled on Tier 0 internal wakes that are on a non-32 kHz domain and that can potentially be cleared by SPE software before the event is sampled at the wake logic.
- Debounce Logic
The portion of the wake signaling logic figure shown in the dotted red box is the debounce filter. The debounce figure filters out pulses below a register-defined period. Debounce logic provides an option to clock the filter with 32 kHz or 1 kHz (derived from pmc_clk) clock. The wake signal after syncing through the synchronizer is passed through this filter (if enabled). The granularity of the period of the minimum allowable pulse varies from 1 ms (when a 1 kHz clock used) to 31 µs (when a 32 kHz clock is used). When receiving wakes from platform level mechanical switches, the 1 kHz clock source is used. The 32 kHz clocking option is used when interfacing to other wake sources and some level of de- bouncing is desired. For example, if glitches in the 10s of µs range need to be filtered out, this option is enabled. This option is enabled for most of the wakes.
- Wake Polarity Selection
- The XNOR gate is used for polarity selection. If the input wake level matches the
- WAKE_AOWAKE_CTRL_x_LEVEL register, the signal then goes to the wake signaling logic. The
portion of the wake signaling logic figure shown in the blue dotted box is the wake level logic.

- PMC Functional Description
- Wake Signaling Parameters
The wake signaling configuration parameters are below:
- DELAY_FILTER_INST

