# 4.3.2 BPMP Functional Description

#### 4.3.2.1 Conventions of Units
This TRM chapter follows the IEEE and NIST conventions for multiplying prefixes. Among other things, this convention uses an 'i' to indicate the binary convention, and its absence to indicate decimal. So, 1 KiB is 210 or 1,024 bytes, and 1 KB is 103 or 1,000 bytes. Similarly it uses:

- BPMP Functional Description
- Mi for 220 and M for 106
- Gi for 230 and G for 109
- Ti for 240 and T for 1012
#### 4.3.2.2 Glossary
- Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the BPMP complex.
- Term
- Definition
- APS
- Auxiliary Processor Subsystem. Refers to an implementation boundary that is shared across
Cortex-R5 clusters on the chip.
- The BPMP is based on the Arm Cortex-R5F processor, it may also be referred to as the
- Cortex-R5 or just R5, but the BPMP implementation does include the optional Floating-
Point Unit extensions including double-precision capability.
- The Arm PL192 Vectored Interrupt Controller is sometimes referred to by Arm as VIC. To
avoid a name-space conflict with the Video Image Compositor, the Arm Vectored Interrupt Controller is referred to as AVIC in this document, although it may also be referred to as VIC as part of register or signal names.
**Figure 4.38 BPMP Complex Block Diagram**

- BPMP Functional Description
#### 4.3.2.3 Arm Cortex-R5F Processor Overview
The Arm Cortex-R5F is implemented with the following features: Arm Cortex-R5F processor with a double-precision floating-point unit (FPU), featuring:
- ARMv7-R ISA

