# 4 :1

- RO
0x0 RBSZ_x_0:
- Receive Buffer size Low RBSZ[13:0] is split into two fields RBSZ_13_y
and RBSZ_x_0. The RBSZ_x_0 is the lower field whose width is based on data bus width of the configuration. This field is of width 2, 3, or 4 bits for 32-bit, 64-bit, or 128-bit data bus width respectively. This field is read-only (RO).
- RW
0x0 SR:
- Start or Stop Receive When this bit is set, the DMA tries to acquire the
descriptor from the Receive list and processes the incoming packets. The
- DMA tries to acquire descriptor from either of the following positions: -
- The current position in the list This is the address set by the
- DMA_CH0_RxDesc_List_Address register. - The position at which the Rx
process was previously stopped If the DMA does not own the current descriptor, the reception is suspended and the RBU bit of the
- DMA_CH0_Status register is set. The Start Receive command is effective
only when the reception is stopped. If the command is issued before setting the DMA_CH0_RxDesc_List_Address register, the DMA behavior is unpredictable. When this bit is reset, the Rx DMA operation is stopped after the transfer of the current packet. The next descriptor position in the Receive list is saved, and it becomes the current position after the Rx process is restarted. The Stop Receive command is effective only when the Rx process is in the Running (waiting for Rx packet) or Suspended state.
- EQOS_EQOS_DMA_CH0_DMA_CH0_TXDESC_LIST_HADDRESS_0
The Channel<i> Tx Descriptor List HAddress register has the higher 8 or 16 bits of the start address of the Transmit descriptor list. You can write to this register only when the Tx DMA has stopped, that is, the ST bit is set to zero in DMA_CHi_Tx_Control register. When stopped, this register can be written with a new descriptor list address. When you set the ST bit to 1, the DMA takes the newly-programmed descriptor base address. If this register is not changed when the ST bit is set to 0, the DMA takes the descriptor address where it was stopped earlier. This register must be programmed with desired the higher address before programming the
- DMA_CHi_TxDesc_List_Address register.)
- Offset: 0x1110
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

