# 4 :2:0 – MPEG1 4:2:0 – MPEG2


- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Data Size Conversion
- When expanding the number of bits in a component (e.g., from RGB565 to RGB888), expansion
should use bit replication of the MSBs of the original value to fill in the LSBs of the expanded bit length value. For example, if converting from a 5-bit value to 8-bit value, the first three MSBs of the source 5-bit value are concatenated as the three new LSBs to the original 5-bit value to produce the new expanded 8-bit value. e.g., 5-bit R5 = 11000'b expanded to 8 bit R8 = 11000110'b When reducing the number of bits in a component (e.g., from RGB888 to RGB565), the LSBs of the old value are truncated to arrive at the shortened value. e.g., 8-bit R8 = 11000000'b reduced to 5 bit R5 = 11000'b Replication followed by truncation ensures that the truncated value equals the original pre- replicated operand, i.e., RGB565 -> RGB888 expansion followed immediately by RGB888 -> RGB565 reduction results in the same original value.
- Luminance Conversion
Conversion from luminance-only color formats (e.g., L8/Y8/YUV100, A8L8, etc.) to and from RGB or YUV formats should be done as outlined below.
- Luminance-only to YUV
L -> Y, 128 -> U, 128 -> V
- Luminance-only to RGB
L -> R, L -> G, L -> B
- YUV to Luminance-only
Y -> L
- Clamp L between 0.0 and 1.0
- RGB to Luminance-only
(R*5 + G*9 + B*2)/16 -> L
- Clamp L between 0.0 and 1.0
- Adding and Removing Alpha
If converting from a pixel format with alpha to a pixel format with no alpha, the alpha value is dropped. If converting from a pixel format with no alpha to a pixel format with alpha, the alpha value in the destination pixel format should be set to 1.0.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.3.4 Chroma Upsampling
- VIC implements a fixed function YUV chroma up-sampling that allows pixel formats with sub-
sampled chroma to be up-sampled to YUV444 right at the beginning of the pipeline, allowing them to be converted to RGB, passed through de-gamma and then sent through the scaling/blending pipelines just like other RGB formats. This feature is required to be able to scale YUV surfaces in linear space. The up-sampling block supports both 2-tap and 5-tap up-sampling modes. It supports both a two component/pixel (UV plane) mode, as well as a one component/pixel mode (U plane or V plane). Any other mode that does not require chroma up-sampling is passed through the pipeline untouched. 5-tap mode is recommended for high-quality video use-cases.
##### 7.3.1.3.5 Color Correct Processing
VIC processes colors "correctly," meaning that it follows industry-standard guidelines when doing image processing like scaling, compositing, etc. In particular, all linear operations like scaling and blending are done in the linear pixel space after correcting for any non-linear gamma inputs.
- Full Degamma/Regamma Support
VIC has full support for reading, writing, and processing gamma space color space pixels. This means that VIC puts pixels through a degamma logic shortly after they are read; pixel processing including scaling, gamut mapping, and blending then happen in the linear color space, and there is a regamma conversion to convert pixels back into the gamma space before they are written out.
- Since VIC has to process different types of content, each of which might be encoded with a
different gamma, the degamma logic allows software to program the parameters of the gamma equation into the VIC config structure as necessary. Similarly, the output regamma logic implemented in a programmable fashion so that software can choose the output gamma space as necessary.
##### 7.3.1.3.6 Surface Transform Processing
- Surface Transformation
The blend unit is responsible for generating the destination surface addressing that implements mirroring (across X-axis and/or Y-axis) of tiles within the Target rectangle of the output surface. The output buffer implements the ability to mirror pixels in the X and Y directions within each output tile. This ability, in addition to the fetch control changes mentioned above, give VIC the ability to flip the contents of the entire Target rectangle about its axis.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
The output buffer also implements the hardware necessary to support transposition of the Target Rectangle. This ability, when combined with the target rectangle flips described above, gives VIC the ability to rotate images by any multiple of 90 degrees. Rotation must be done in the pipeline after de-interlacing because the de-interlacer assumes a normal orientation of the input fields (interlaced field lines run horizontal). Rotation of the image prior to de-interlacing makes the de-interlacer ineffective.
**Figure 7.49 Interlaced Field Lines Run Horizontally**
The programmed starting address of the source and destination rectangles remain at the upper left corner of the unit. The Source Image diagrammed below shows the logical tile traversal pattern as the input rectangle traverses the VIC unit (tiles are read in raster order from left to right, then top to bottom). The destination rectangle diagrammed below shows the expected transformations when the programmer specifies the combination of flipX, flipY, and transposeXY transformations available to be applied to the output rectangle.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
**Figure 7.50 Surface Transformation Orientations**
- Table 7.60 Output Buffer Surface Transformation Controls
- Transformation
transposeXY flipY flipX
- Normal (no transformation)
H flip (mirror on vertical axis) V flip (mirror on horizontal axis) 180-degree rotation
- Mirror on 315-degree axis

