# 4 , 8, 16 512B, 1 KiB

- MASK_0: 32’b 1011 0101 0111 1010 1111 10xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_1: 32’b 0101 1111 1010 1101 1010 01xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_2: 32’b 1101 0001 1001 1110 0110 00xx xxxx
xxxx
- MASK_3: 32’b 1111 0010 0110 1011 0001 00xx xxxx
xxxx

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_0=0xB57AF800
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_1=0x5FADA400
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_2=0xD19E3000
- MC_EMEM_ADR_CFG_BANK_MASK_3=0xF26B1000
For there to be no aliasing of memory addresses (that is, two physical addresses mapping to the same DRAM location), the mask bits that correspond to the bank bits in the physical address must allow all banks to be selected. Normally this is done by having a unique bank bit set in each mask register. For simplicity in the reverse mapping, we require this for legal settings of the mask registers. For best performance, program the channel mask registers with the optimized settings given above.
##### 3.1.2.12.3 iGPU NVLink Steering
Incoming iGPU requests are steered to one of the iGPU NVLink interfaces based upon an address hash determined by the GPU. The nominal interleave is 256B. Responses are routed to the NVLink interface that originated the request.
#### 3.1.2.13 Virtual Channels
Virtual channels allow independence and differentiated quality of service (QoS) for multiple logical streams that share a common physical channel.
##### 3.1.2.13.1 Virtual Channels for Quality of Service
The SoC has a robust mechanism to provide QoS to the different traffic classes. The major traffic classes are described below:
- Isochronous (ISO). Clients have fixed latency requirements and specified bandwidth that is
provided within a time horizon of hundreds of nsec (display and camera). Bandwidth disruptions for system events like DVFS and system training are provisioned for with appropriate buffering. Data is needed in the required time or pixels are dropped.
- Soft ISO (SISO). Clients have fixed bandwidth requirements within a time horizon of
milliseconds. Stalls are allowed within this time period so long as the specified bandwidth is provided for a specified minimum fraction of each period (for example, NVDEC, NVENC, and PVA). Processing for a frame must be completed within the frame time or frame is dropped. Non-ISO (NISO). Best-effort service. Faster is better, but there is no hard deadline and no guarantees.
- Low-latency (LL). Client performance depends on lowest possible latency (for example,CPU
reads).
- Low-latency SISO (SISO_LL). This is used for NISO page-table misses and Cortex-A9 CPU
reads. The requests are SISO, but latency is critical to meet the clients’ performance

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
requirements. SISO_LL is a hybrid: SISO_LL requests travel on the ISO VC from hubs through MCF but split into their own VC in the channel.
- The ISO and SISO virtual channels are “provisioned,” meaning that under normal conditions
requests launched into the virtual channel proceed to the memory channel (or final destination) without backpressure, thus should traverse the MSS pipeline with relatively low latency. The NISO virtual channel is “unprovisioned” meaning that when DRAM (or final destination) is oversubscribed, requests can back up and fill the virtual channel. The latency under these conditions can be high— it is a function of the load issued by all the clients. Thus, in a case in which clients may saturate DRAM, the NISO virtual channel is only suited to “best effort” service. The ISO virtual channel is special in that all interactions with the other virtual channels and other uncontrolled sources of stalls are avoided so that latency is predictable. Ring 1 and Ring 2 DDA settings are used to prioritize ISO over other VCs and SISO over NISO above the TBUs. There are dedicated ISO SMMU TBUs to prevent SMMU slowdowns from other VCs from affecting ISO. VCs are provided from clients, through hubs, MCF, and SCF to Ring 0 at each Memory Controller Channel. The Ring 0 arbiter arbitrates between the head of each VC as it selects requests for the row sorter. At that point, row sorter priorities and deadlines determine which order requests are satisfied.
##### 3.1.2.13.2 Virtual Channels to Prevent Deadlock
Two additional virtual channels are needed to remove dependencies between streams of requests that can cause deadlock:
- TRANS_DONE to convey the RMW completion signal from GPU L2 to SCF. Without this
additional virtual channel, the TRANS_DONE command could be blocked behind a request waiting for the RMW to complete, causing deadlock. The four main virtual channels (NISO, SISO, ISO, CPU_LL), are conveyed to the DRAM channels, where they get resolved. This is done in a dual-level ring structure: Ring 0x followed by Ring 0.
#### 3.1.2.14 Arbitration, Throttling, and Deadlines
Arbitration, throttling, and deadlines are used to improve QoS for clients. The goals are to:
- Provide clients with required bandwidth
- Improve utilization by preventing congestion
- Reduce client latency and limit latency outliers

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
##### 3.1.2.14.1 Priority Tier Snap Arbiter (PTSA/DDAs)
DRAM utilization can vary depending on the characteristics of the request stream and can pause for periodic training, refresh, etc. Certain clients and traffic streams have bandwidth requirements that the system must satisfy despite the variable DRAM utilization. Bandwidth guarantee logic at the snap arbiter inputs is included. The bandwidth guarantee logic uses a DDA mechanism along with dynamic masking of the inputs to the snap arbiter. For each input at any snap arbiter ring, provide the following control, state, and I/O. Note that signed (two's complement) fixed-point arithmetic is used for the bandwidth calculations, using N integer bits (including sign) and F fraction bits. For this SoC, the values are N=11 and F=12.
- Name
- Control, state, I/O
- Fixed pt format
(#int bits. #frac bits)
- Description
request input -
- Request is present at the arbiter input
grant input -
- Request was granted last cycle
high_priority output -
- Request grants are behind the
guaranteed rate rate control 0.F
- Amount to increment accum every
clock. accum state N.F
- Accumulates number of grants “owed” to
this arbiter input; a negative value indicates that the input has had more grants than its guarantee max control N.0
- Maximum value of accum allowed
min control N.0
- Minimum value of accum allowed
(normally negative) grant_decrement global control 1.F
- Amount to subtract from accum every
clock that a grant occurs. This is a global config value that is used for all DDAs. Each clock cycle, the following computation is done for each snap arbiter input: high_priority = (accum >= 0.0); accum = accum + rate; if (grant) accum = accum – grant_decrement; if (accum > max) accum = max; if (accum < min) accum = min; If any snap arbiter input has a non-zero value for (high_priority and request), that is if high priority and at least one of its slots has a valid request, then we AND the snap arbiter request inputs with a mask where the mask value is the input’s high_priority signal (the input’s high_priority is used as a mask for all the input’s requests). If no input has a non-zero value for (high_priority and request),

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
then there is no masking of the snap arbiter inputs. Thus, any inputs that are “behind” are handled in the next snap arbiter round while inputs that are not behind are excluded. DDAs are provided on the Ring 2 and Ring 1 snap arbiter rings in the client hubs, within SCF at merge points between CPU and DMA traffic, and Ring 0 and Ring 0x in the Memory Controller Channels.
- Frequency versus Use-case Programming of Registers
Software usually requires that a given register must be owned by a single driver. The clocks driver is responsible for registers that depend on frequency and the client/ISO manager drivers are responsible for registers that depend on use case. Therefore, display and other ISO clients whose bandwidth demands are constant regardless of clock frequency, rate, minimum, and maximum, are programmed by the display driver.
- Display and other ISO client DDA rates are typically programmed to provide the appropriate
bandwidth for a given use case at maximum mcclk/emcclk/scfclk with grant_decrement = 1 at this maximum frequency. At lower clock frequencies, rather than increasing each input’s rate parameter (which would require control of the rate registers by multiple drivers), the clocks driver changes the global grant_decrement value instead. Clients whose bandwidth should scale down at lower clock frequencies (such as CPU) have their rate programmed by the clocks driver as well, so it scales down with frequency. In general, a given client is categorized either as a use-case- dependent client or a frequency-dependent client, which dictates whether the client driver or clocks driver owns the client’s DDA register. The grant_decrement register is shadowed so it can be automatically updated when a frequency change occurs. For example, the CPU’s rate needs to scale down with EMCCLK so it does not overwhelm the available bandwidth.
##### 3.1.2.14.2 Request Throttling
Throttling of requests is an important way to prevent congestion and saturation by low priority requests. For regions of the design in which there are no VCs (for example the output Ring 1), local throttling is used to prevent low priority VCs from head-of-line blocking high-priority VCs.
- Hub Partition Client Bandwidth Throttling
This limits the bandwidth consumed by a single partition client. A bandwidth throttle is provided at each partition client, which operates similarly to the DDAs at the ring arbiters that guarantee bandwidth, only these throttles cap bandwidth. Each clock cycle, an accumulator is incremented by a client-specific rate increment that corresponds to a 64 byte transfer. Simultaneously, if the partition client receives a grant from the ring arbiter, the accumulator is decremented by a globally configured grant decrement value. Requests from a partition client to the arbiter are masked if the accumulator value is negative.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
Since a client will not receive any further grants once its request is masked, the lowest possible value for the accumulator is the grant decrement value.
- Hub Output Throttling to Prevent Response Path Backpressure
The response paths from MCF to the client hubs have limited bandwidth – less than full DRAM bandwidth. Arbitration inefficiencies at the MCF output response crossbar can further reduce bandwidth on each of these paths to about 90% of the theoretical response bandwidth. If 1) clients make large requests or, 2) if the input request crossbar selects requests from a hub that exceed the response bandwidth to that hub, persistent backups can occur at the output response crossbar through the MCF/SCF response pipeline, all the way back to the channels. Since the response paths have no virtual channels, priority responses (e.g., ISO SMMU page-table-misses) can be trapped and delayed. Also, if the input request crossbar chooses requests from a hub at a higher rate than the responses can be delivered, the backpressure reduces the rate the row sorters can schedule requests, reducing DRAM bandwidth.
- Ring 0/Ring 0x Throttling
- Ring 0 and Ring 0x have DDAs at each input, which provides bandwidth control under most
circumstances. The input request stream at Ring 0 additionally needs throttling to prevent the row sorter from filling with low priority requests (which could head-of-line block high-priority ISO requests) and to prevent CPU requests, which normally get high priority, from starving SISO and NISO.
##### 3.1.2.14.3 Latency Allowance and Deadlines
The Memory Subsystem supports clients with different latency requirements. The architecture achieves this by calculating a deadline for each request as it enters the memory subsystem and then prioritizing requests that reach their deadline and have not been serviced. When all requests are within their deadline, the arbiter grants requests to maximize efficiency (Efficiency Arbitration Mode). If any request(s) have reached their deadline, the arbiter operates in Latency Arbitration Mode, giving high priority to the expired request(s). For a variety of reasons, an expired request may not be able to be granted immediately. Here are several definitions that are useful in the explanations: Expiration Time. The time between a request reaching its deadline and the time it is granted by the arbiter. Latency Tolerance. The latency a client can tolerate while running at its design bandwidth. This may be governed by a) the size of internal latency buffers within the client or b) the size of the client’s MCCIF response buffer (which needs to be large enough to store all the client’s requests outstanding in the memory controller). The latency allowance should be less than the Latency Tolerance, minus the expected Expiration Time and minus pipeline latencies not accounted for in the latency allowance, to avoid stalling the client.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Bandwidth-disruption time. The time service at a channel may be disrupted for infrequent
events, such as frequency changes, periodic training, ZQ Calibration, and so forth.
- Deadline Computation
When a request is stored in the partition client (PC) FIFO, a deadline is computed for it. The deadline is computed by adding the latency allowance (LA) of the issuing client to the current timestamp. The LA is programmable on a per-client basis. Slack is defined as:
- Slack = Deadline – Timestamp
Negative slack means the request has been pending in the Row Sorter for longer than its latency allowance and should receive latency-mode arbitration. Modular arithmetic is used to handle timestamp wraparound. To decouple the concept of time in the Row Sorter from the clock period of the MCCLK, the units of deadlines, LAs, timestamps, and slack are all stored in units of ticks. A tick is the wall-clock granularity; nominally 30ns. There are configuration variables to tell the TIMER unit how to translate MCCLK cycles into the appropriate timestamp increments for the current clock- frequency.
- Determining the Latency Allowance
NVIDIA determines the latency allowance setting for each client. These values are programmed into registers that determine the deadline for client requests. In many cases, the latency allowance is statically programmed. In some cases, it must be dynamically programmed based on client bandwidth and/or memory clock frequencies. When latency allowance is exceeded, the request expires. Requests are expected to be granted within the expiration time. Thus, the latency expected a given request to achieve is given by: target_latency = latency_allowance + expiration_time + static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter This target_latency should match expected_latency in the following Little’s Law equation: latency_buffer_size = design_bandwidth * expected_latency Combining the equations, setting expected_latency = target_latency and latency_buffer_size = mccif_size, design_bandwidth = client_bandwidth, and solving for latency_allowance, results in the following: latency_allowance = mccif_size / client_bandwidth
- static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter
- expiration_time
The following table shows the terms in static_latency_minus_snap_arb_to_row_sorter.

- Memory Subsystem (MSS)
- Table 3.1 Terms in static_latency_from_snap_arbiter_to_row_sorter
- Static latency AXI to TBU input
scfclk
- Static latency from WCAM to RespXbar
mcclk
- Static Latency from RespXbar to client

