# 4 ,8

- MMC4.51
- HS400(DDR)
eMMC5.0
#### 10.10.2.5 Interface to Memory Controller
- The SDMMC controller is a direct MC client. It uses 256-bit MCCIF to meet target bandwidth
requirements.
#### 10.10.2.6 Address Width
In order to access all of DRAM, SDMMC must generate addresses larger than 32-bit. Therefore a 64-bit system address needs to be advertised in the Host Control 2 Register.
- The SYSTEM_ADDRESS_Reg used for SDMA is 32-bit wide. During 64-bit system addressing, the
- ADMA System Address Register would be used as the pointer to System Memory as mentioned in
the SDHost4.2 specification.

- SDMMC Controller Functional Description
- Table 10.83 DMA Support
- DMA
- SoC
- SDMA
- Supported (32/64 bit)
- ADMA1
- Deprecated
- ADMA2 32 bit
- Supported
- ADMA2 64 bit
- Supported
- ADMA3
- Supported
SDMA: Single DMA. A large contiguous memory space may not be available in the virtual memory system. To perform long SDMA transfers, the SDMA System Address register requires updates at every system memory boundary. This requires interrupting the host CPU at the end of contiguous boundary so the next contiguous memory DMA can be programmed. SDHOST4.2 allows the SDMA to be 64 bit (previously 32 bit). When SDMA is used with 64-bit addressing, the ADMA System Address Register is used as the SDMA System Address Register.
- ADMA: Advanced DMA – ADMA2 and ADMA3. The Host Driver builds a descriptor in the memory
before commencing DMA. This is a scatter gather DMA operation and does not require interrupting the CPU after every transfer. Both ADMA2 and ADMA3 adopt the scatter gather DMA algorithm so that a higher data transfer speed is available. The Host Driver can program a list of data transfers between system memory and SD card to the Descriptor Table. ADMA2 performs a read / write SD command operation at the time. ADMA3 can program multiple read/write SD commands operation in a Descriptor Table. ADMA3 is suitable to perform very large data transfer. ADMA1 is not supported from SDHOST3.0 onwards. It limited data transfers of only 4 KB aligned data in System Memory and ADMA2 removed this limitation. Furthermore, ADMA2 can be used to address the 32 bit or 64 bit (40 bit for this SoC) system memory. ADMA shall refer to ADMA2 in the document since ADMA1 is deprecated.
#### 10.10.2.7 SMMU Translation
While SDMMC can support operation with SMMU translation off and using 64-bit addressing only, SMMU translation will normally be used. Also, SMMU must be used to access all of DRAM using a 32-bit DMA address. SMMU translates this address into DRAM Physical Address (PA).
#### 10.10.2.8 ADMA2 64 Bit
- To support larger addressing requirements, 64 bit ADMA is added. This requires adding the
ADMA_SYSTEM_ADDRESS register [63:32] at address offset 0x5Ch. 1. 2. Updating the Host Control 2 register to indicate support for 64-bit addressing.
- Updating the DMA select field with the new encoding in SDHOST4.2

- SDMMC Controller Functional Description
The host driver shall program the ADMA_SYSTEM_ADDRESS register via two consecutive writes. The descriptors built by the Host Driver also need to be updated to support 64-bit address (3/4 words instead of 2).
**Figure 10.143 Block Diagram for ADMA2**
#### 10.10.2.9 Descriptors for 64-bit Addressing
The 96-bit descriptor in SDHOST3.0 can be implemented in two ways:
- Case 1: Multiple 96-bit descriptors are aligned contiguously without 32-bit padding - the
descriptor start address should be 32 bit aligned.
- Case 2: Multiple 96-bit descriptors are aligned with 32-bit padding - the descriptor start
address should be 64 bit aligned. 1. 2. In host4.1, Case 1 is implemented when the host driver chooses to run in sdhost3.0 compatibility mode in the 64-bit addressing system. Case 2 is implemented (128-bit descriptor) when the host driver chooses to run in sdhost4.0 mode in the 64-bit addressing system. Possible cases are:
- Addressing mode version select descriptor size addr_alignment

