# 5.1.2 Glossary

This glossary defines a number of terms used in the context of the CPU Complex. See also the glossary in the Introduction section of this document for terms used across the SoC.
- Term
- Definition
- ACDI
Arm Cluster Debug Interface. A design unit in SCF CMU that instantiates the Debug Block IP from Arm and other necessary Coresight debug related collateral to interface with the SoC.
- ACE
- AXI Coherency Extensions
- ACI
Arm Cluster Interface. Arm Cluster’s gateway to the external world is through the ACI design unit.
- ADB
- AMBA Domain Bridge
- AE
- Automotive Enhanced
(as in Cortex®‑A78AE, Hercules-AE, DSU-AE.)
- AMU
- Activity Monitoring Unit
- ARI
Abstract Request Interface. An interface that enables Arm software to communicate with the MCE software to enable modification of CREGs that are part of the CCPLEX.
- Arm Cluster
Cluster may sometimes be referred to as the Arm Cluster to explicitly indicating that the Cluster is made up of CPU cores from Arm (as opposed to NVIDIA CPUs).
- AVFS
- Automatic Voltage Frequency Scaling
- CCPMU
- CCPLEX Power Management Unit
- CMU
- CCPLEX Miscellaneous Unit
- CMULA
- CCPLEX Miscellaneous Unit Logic Analyzer
- CPE
- Copy Engine
- CRAB
- Control Register Access Bus

- CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
- Term
- Definition
- CREG
- Control Register
- CTI
- Cross Trigger Interface
- DSU-AE
DynamIQ™ Shared Unit. Arm IP containing Cluster coherency logic and the Level-3 (L3) Cache.
- DSU-AE
- Cache
The L3 Cache inside the DSU-AE is also referred to as the DSU-AE Cache. (L3 and DSU-AE Cache are synonymous and are used interchangeably in this document.)
- DUT
Design Under Test. (Referring to the design unit that a test bench is attempting to validate.)
- DVM
Distributed Virtual Memory.
- DVM transactions support the maintenance of a virtual memory system
- ETM
- Embedded Trace Macrocell
- FIQ
- Fast Interrupt Request
- FMU
- Fault Management Unit
- IH
- Interrupt Handling unit
- IOB
- Input-Output Bridge
- IRI
- Interrupt Routing Infrastructure
- IRQ
- Interrupt Request
- ISM
In Silicon Measurement. (ISM circuits are sprinkled around the SoC to measure various parameters for silicon characterization.)
- IST
In System Test. (IST is a mechanism akin to running ATPG vectors on a chip tester except that it is performed on chip by hardware similar to Memory Built In Self Test or MBIST.)
- Lock mode
Mode of operation where a pair of CPU's in a CPU Cluster operate as one CPU and is recognized by the operating system also as one CPU.
- MCA
- Machine Check Architecture
- MP2LS

