# 5 :2

- RW
0x0 ADDRT:
- RSS Address Type. This filed is used to select RSS indirect register
block. Values: - 0x0 : RSS_LKUP, RSS Lookup Table (RSS_Lookup_Data#(RSSIA)) - 0x1 : RSS_HKEY, RSS Hash Key (MAC_RSS_Hash_Key#(RSSIA)) - 0x2 : I4UDP_4TMB, RSS IPv4 UDP 4- Tuple Mask Bits (MAC_RSS_IPV4UDP_4TMBIT#(RSSIA)) - 0x3 :
- I6UDP_4TMB, RSS IPv6 UDP 4-Tuple Mask Bits
(MAC_RSS_IPV6UDP_4TMBIT#(RSSIA)) - 0x4 : I4TCP_4TMB, RSS IPv4 TCP 4-Tuple Mask Bits (MAC_RSS_IPV4TCP_4TMBIT#(RSSIA)) - 0x5 :
- I6TCP_4TMB, RSS IPv6 TCP 4-Tuple Mask Bits
(MAC_RSS_IPV6TCP_4TMBIT#(RSSIA)) - 0x6 : I4UP_2TMB, RSS IPv4
- Unsupported Payload 2-Tuple Mask Bits
(MAC_RSS_IPV4UP_2TMBIT#(RSSIA)) - 0x7 : I6UP_2TMB, RSS IPv6
- Unsupported Payload 2-Tuple Mask Bits
(MAC_RSS_IPV6UP_2TMBIT#(RSSIA)) - 0x8 : TNL_TMB, RSS Tunnel
- Packet Tuples Mask Bits (MAC_RSS_TUNNEL_TMBIT#(RSSIA)) - 0x9 to
0xF: Reserved
- RW
0x0 CT:
- Command Type. - When set, a read transfer is done from the location
addressed by RSSIA. The data read from that location is available in the
- MAC_RSS_Data register. - When reset, a write transfer to the location
addressed by RSSIA is executed. The data is transferred from the
- MAC_RSS_Data register. You must write the MAC_RSS_Data register
before initiating the write transaction.
- RW
0x0 OB:
- Operation Busy. - When set, initiates read or write command (as
indicated by CT) to the RSS function register. - When reset, indicates that read or write command to RSS function registers is complete. - For write operations, the application must program the MAC_RSS_Data register before setting this bit, and wait for this bit to be cleared to initiate the next access. - For read operations, the application should read the MAC_RSS_Data register after this bit is cleared.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_RSS_DATA_0
This register has the data to be written into or read from the RSS Lookup Table or the RSS Hash Key.
- Offset: 0xc8c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

