# 60 ,000/1.2GHz = 50us

- Data capture size
32B record * 64 PERFMONs = 2KB
- Sustained bandwidth
2KB/50us = 41MB/s
- Burst bandwidth
16B*625MHz = 10GB/s for 200ns

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
- To support 1MHz sample rate for all PERFMONs requires roughly 2GB/s of sustained memory
bandwidth. The HWPM memory bandwidth is capped at 1GB, allowing up to half of the PERFMONs to be sampled at 1MHz or all PERFMONs to be sampled at 500KHz rate or every 2us. PMA records are stored in a circular buffer in memory. The figure below describes how records are accessed in the buffer whose location and size are set using PMA OUTBASE and OUTSIZE.
- Hardware increments MEM_HEAD after every record store. Software maintains the read pointer
and indicates read pointer increments via updates to PMA MEM_BUMP.
**Figure 9.93 PMA Circular Buffer**
#### 9.12.1.2 Performance Monitor Description
A key advantage of the HWPM is their programmable nature. Based on the PERFMON mode, events can be used as single bit increment pulse, or a combination of signals can be used to increment a count by a programmable amount. It is possible to define an experiment using any combination of events going to the PERFMON. The experiment defines the level required for all events and the amount to increment the counter based on the event levels. The table below illustrates examples of experiments for the available PERFMON modes. Additionally, timestamps can be written out along with the count. Note that mode C counter width is only 16 bits when supporting 12 counters. To avoid saturation of the counter, PERFMON snaps and streams out an intermediate record when any counter reaches the thresholds in the table below. Tools can detect overflow records and aggregate into a wider software counter. If a PERFMON has back-pressure and cannot snap a record, then the counter saturates at the maximum value.
- Table 9.93 Performance Monitor Streaming Overflow Threshold
- Counter Width
- Threshold

