# 642.9 MHz

- 1: 10.28G/32 ~= 321.25 M
- 2: 20.57G/32 ~= 642.9 M
- 3: 20.57G*7/16/3 ~= 3 G
- 4: 20.57G*7/16/4 ~= 2.25 G
##### 7.2.1.1.6 Software Programming Sequence
- Programming Model
NVCSI is a MIPI CSI-2 Receiver and it expects the Transmitting device to follow the sequence defined in MIPI CCS spec version 1.0 (MIPI Specification for Camera Command Set). The initial/ stop/mode change sequences are shown below.

- NVCSI CORE
**Figure 7.8 Initial Sequence (DPHY example)**
- Initial Sequence
Software should follow the steps below when initializing NVCSI for image captures:
- Enable the NVCSI clock and nvcsi_lpclk. Remove the reset of the NVCSI, but keep the PP and
CIL in reset state. Power up the CSI pad. Initial sensor to enter soft standby state with steps: 1. 2. 3.
- PMIC programming to enable power (if required)
- Toggle XSHUTDOWN
Wait several ms per sensor requirement. Enable XCLK. Wait several ms per sensor requirement. a. b. c. d. e.

- NVCSI CORE
f. Toggle XCLR. Complete other operations if required by sensor requirement. g. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Set up the VI global setting and CSIMUX. Prepare task descriptor for frame-based setting and submit to Falcon. Program the CSI CIL configuration register. Program the CSI PP configuration registers. Remove reset of the NVCSI PP. Remove reset of NVCSI CIL lanes. Use the I2C to communicate to sensor: 10. a. b. CSI interface configuration and initialize. Mode registers configuration. Activate from the soft standby mode to start the streaming. c. 11. Submit more task descriptors if required.
- Stop Sequence
Software should follow the steps below when it needs to stop the sensor. 1. If required, follow these steps to make the boundary clean to guarantee the frame integrity. a. b. Software operation(s) to enable the frame end notification. Falcon gets a frame start notification.
- Interrupt to Software
c. 2. 3. 4. 5. Put the NVCSI PP and CIL in reset state. Power down the CSI pad. Use I2C to communicate to the sensor to enter soft standby. Hardware standby for the sensor: a. b. Toggle XCLR. Wait several ms per sensor requirement. Toggle XSHUTDOWN. Wait several ms per sensor requirement. Stop INCLK. PMIC to stop the power of sensor (if required). c. d. e. f.
- Mode Change without Standby Entry (not recommended)
Software should follow the steps below when it needs to do the mode change without putting the sensor in standby mode. This mode change sequence is not defined in CCS specification and does not support the lane number change. 1. 2. 3. Software operation(s) to enable the frame start notification. Falcon gets a frame start notification. Interrupt to Software.

- NVCSI SCIL
4. 5. Use I2C to communicate to the sensor a new mode setting.
- Program the NVCSI PP registers (if required). NVCSI CIL register is not recommended to
change. Step 4 and 5 should be completed in one frame time. New mode setting active from next frame. 6. 7.
- Mode Change with Standby Entry
Software should follow the steps below when it needs to do the mode change with putting the sensor in standby mode. 1. If required, follow these steps to make the boundary clean to guarantee the frame integrity. a. b. Software operation(s) to enable the frame end notification. Falcon gets a frame start notification.
- Interrupt to Software
c. 2. 3. 4. Put the NVCSI PP and CIL in reset state. Use I2C to communicate to the sensor to enter soft standby. The MIPI link, which is currently active, or will be active after standby, is not allowed to be Hi-Z during the standby phase. Program the NVCSI PP registers and NVCSI CIL registers. Soft reset the VI channel. Remove the reset of the NVCSI PP and NVCSI CIL.
- Use the I2C to communicate to the sensor for new mode settings and exit the soft standby
mode. Start normal image capture operation in VI. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
#### 7.2.1.2 NVCSI SCIL
The SCIL part of NVCSI contains all the NVCSI PHY interfacing and controls in one unit. This unifies data received from the D-PHY and C-PHY combination PHY (referred to as the combo brick) into the FIFO output of SCIL, so that the NVCSI CORE can work on data from the FIFO with less dependency on brick and PHY-related artifacts. NVCSI SCIL handles this brick, which includes the analog parts of MIPI D-PHY, v2.1, and MIPI C-PHY, v1.2. The SCIL block includes the following functionality:
- Deskew calibration of the brick for D-PHY
- Polarity swapping and lane/trio swapping
- Reacting to and controlling brick for LP/HS and HS/LP transitions
- Handling and decoding of LP data received from the camera sensor
- Enabling/disabling the high-speed datapath of the brick
- Controlling various signals of the NVCSI combo brick to power down the brick in Ultra Low
- Power State (ULPS)

- NVCSI SCIL
- Providing configuration registers for electrical parameter setting
- Establishing byte/word boundary
- Asserting appropriate error signal detected during data reception to NVCSI CORE block
- Byte alignment between multiple data lanes/trios
- Aligning data from brick and feeding into the FIFO between SCIL to NVCSI CORE
- Symbol translation, decoding, and demapping of 7-symbol-to-16-bit
C-PHY edge delay calibration for clock recovery The NVCSI SCIL (also known as SCIL or Super CIL) module controls the individual lanes of an NVCSI combo brick (or brick). SCIL aggregates data from individual lanes while supporting following brick configuration modes on two instances (AB and CD) of dedicated brick: D-PHY: 1x 4 lanes, 2x 2 lanes, 2x 1 lane, 1x 1 lane, 1x 2 lanes, 1x 1 lane + 1x 2 lanes C-PHY: 1x 4 trios, 1x 3 trios + 1x 1 trio, 2x 2 trios, 2x 1 trio, 1x 1 trio, 1x 3 trios, 1x 2 trios + 1x 1 trio, 1x 2 trios AB and CD instances support two streams. Two other instances (EF and GH) of dedicate brick supports subset of preceding configurations as listed: D-PHY: 1x 4 lanes, 1x 2 lanes, 1x 1 lane The following D-PHY configurations are not supported: 2x 2 lanes, 2x 1 lane, 1x 1 lane + 1x 2 lanes C-PHY: 1x 4 trios, 1x 3 trios, 1x 2 trios, 1x 1 trio The following C-PHY configurations are not supported: 1x 3 trios + 1x 1 trio, 2x 2 trios, 2x 1 trio, 1x 2 trios + 1x 1 trio EF and GH instances support only one stream.
- This SoC implements four bricks each supporting a maximum of four lanes with the preceding
configurations. The data aggregated from physical lanes is pushed into an asynchronous FIFO, which interfaces to the NVCSI CORE logic block. Along with data, the SCIL block also asserts appropriate error signals to the NVCSI CORE.

- NVCSI SCIL
**Figure 7.9 NVCSI SCIL Block Diagram**
One SCIL interfaces to one brick; this SoC implements four SCIL modules to control and receive data from four bricks. This configuration supports up to six cameras without an external aggregator. The data received from the brick generated by the camera sensors is aligned and provided to the NVCSI pixel parsers. MIPI D-PHY v2.1 (but supports up to 2.5 Gbps/lane) and MIPI C-PHY v1.2. SCIL implements the following layers as defined in CSI-2 specification: Low-Level Protocol: The low-level protocol (LLP) includes the means of establishing bit-level and byte-level synchronization for serial data transferred between the Start of Transmission (SoT) and the End of Transmission (EoT) events and for passing data to the NVCSI CORE. The

- NVCSI SCIL
minimum data granularity of the LLP is one byte for D-PHY and two bytes for C-PHY. The LLP also includes assignment of bit-value interpretation within the byte, i.e., the "Endian" assignment.
- Lane Management: The CSI-2 interface is lane-scalable for increased performance. SCIL
supports up to four data lanes per brick in the D-PHY configuration and up to four trios in the C-PHY configuration. SCIL collects bytes from the lanes/trios and merges them together into a recombined data stream that restores the original stream sequence from the camera sensor. For the C-PHY physical layer option, this layer exclusively collects byte pairs (i.e., 16- bits) from the trios. In each supported PHY configuration, per data lane or trio, the brick provides high-speed data in the HS mode synchronous to the slow_clock/byte_clock, which is derived by the brick either from the recovered clock from input data (in C-PHY configuration) or from the clock received separately on dedicated pins (in D-PHY configuration). The brick provides this slow_clock/byte_clock to the SCIL to sample the HS mode data. In low power (LP) mode, per each lane or trio, the brick acts as a buffer, and SCIL samples the LP signaling to generate LP data. By default, at power-on, each lane or trio of the brick is set to LP mode. When predetermined LP signaling is detected, the SCIL transitions the brick from LP to HS mode. Image data from the camera sensor is received in HS mode. After completion of one packet transfer with appropriate handshake using LP signaling, the SCIL disables the HS path of the lane/trio and keeps the lane/trio in LP mode. SCIL waits for the next HS mode transition or ultra-low power state (ULPS) entry. The following are main features of SCIL:
- Control of the brick HS path and transitions from LP mode to HS mode
- Power management of the brick is either software controlled (through register programming)
or camera sensor initiated
- Polarity swapping in D-PHY and C-PHY configurations
- Data lane swapping in D-PHY and trio swapping in C-PHY
- Lane merging
In D-PHY configuration:
- Deskew calibration of the brick data lanes
- Receives one byte in LPDT mode and registers it for software use
- Detection of SoT and EoT
- Word alignment through SYNC word search (allows one-bit error)
- Identification of deskew burst and normal HS data burst with appropriate actions
In C-PHY configuration:
- Termination of the recovered clock before lane swapping and merging
- Translation of wire state information to symbols, with de-mapping functionality from seven
symbols to 16-bit data
- Detection of preamble and post amble, with programmable preamble sequence search
Scalable bytes/words (from different lanes/trios) merging functionality to make unique data width toward the NVCSI CORE

- NVCSI SCIL
- Watchdog timer to guard against no EoT detection
- Error detection and reporting on received data and mode transitions
Note that the SCIL in D-PHY configuration does not implement the bidirectional data turnaround feature of D-PHY, therefore no link turnaround procedure is supported. For the D-PHY configuration, polarity swapping is allowed only on data lanes. There is no polarity swapping on clock lanes as listed in the following table. Furthermore, data lane swizzling is limited to data lanes only. Lane swapping is allowed among data lanes only. Clock lanes cannot be configured as data lanes, and vice versa.
- Table 7.11 D-PHY and C-PHY Pin Sharing and Polarity Swapping
- Pin Name
D-PHY C-PHY
- Default Lane
- Number
- Polarity Swapping
- Default Trio
- Name
- Polarity Swapping
- Data Lane ‘d0_a’
- Allowed between these pins
only trio_0
- Allowed among these pins
only
- CSI_A_D0_P /
- CSI_TRIO0_A
- CSI_A_D0_N /
- CSI_TRIO0_B
- CSI_A_CLK_P /
- CSI_TRIO0_C
- Clock Lane ‘a’
- Allowed on a clock lane
- CSI_A_CLK_N /
- CSI_TRIO1_C
trio_1
- Allowed among these pins
only
- CSI_A_D1_P /
- CSI_TRIO1_A
- Data Lane ‘d1_a’
- Allowed between these pins
only
- CSI_A_D1_N /
- CSI_TRIO1_B
- CSI_B_D0_P /
- CSI_TRIO2_A
- Data Lane ‘d0_b’
- Allowed between these pins
only trio_2
- Allowed among these pins
only
- CSI_B_D0_N /
- CSI_TRIO2_B
- CSI_B_CLK_P /
- CSI_TRIO2_C
- Clock Lane ‘b’
- Not allowed on a clock lane
- CSI_B_CLK_N /
- CSI_TRIO3_C
trio_3
- Allowed among these pins
only
- CSI_B_D1_P /
- CSI_TRIO3_A
- Data Lane ‘d1_b’
- Allowed between these pins
only
- CSI_B_D1_N /
- CSI_TRIO3_B

- NVCSI SCIL
Polarity swapping is allowed among any trio pins for C-PHY configuration. Trio (or lane) swapping is allowed among all trios, for example, any trio can become trio_0 (or tr0). Each SCIL has four CIL blocks corresponding to four data lanes/trios.
##### 7.2.1.2.1 D-PHY
- Low-Power Receiver
During reset, the CIL disables the HS-RX path and enables the LP-RX path only. This makes the CIL watch the LP-RX behavior that determines the intended operation mode of the brick. The remote transmitter in the camera sensor controls the CIL.
- Table 7.12 LP Line States
- State Code
- Line Voltage Levels
- Low Power
- Dp-line
- Dn-line
- Control mode
- Escape mode
- LP-00
- LP low
- LP low
- Bridge
- Space
- LP-01
- LP low
- LP high
- HS-Rqst
- Mark-0
- LP10
- LP high
- LP low
- LP-Rqst
- Mark-1
- LP-11
- LP high
- LP high
- Stop
N/A1 1 If LP-11 occurs during Escape mode, the lane returns to the Stop state (Control mode LP-11). After detecting the HS-Rqst, CIL enables HS-RX. HS mode entry is performed when CIL receives the following LP sequence of LP-11, LP-01, and LP-00. The receiver is in HS mode until CIL detects LP-11 (Stop state). CIL enters the Escape mode using a request within Control mode. CIL exits Escape mode when the Stop state is detected. If nothing is communicated on the lane, the data lane state is the Stop state and the mode is Control mode. CIL supports the following events starting from the Stop state:
- High-speed data transmission request (LP-11, LP-01, LP-00)
Escape mode request (LP-11, LP-10, LP-00, LP-01, LP-00). CIL implements low-power data transmission and ULPS detection Escape modes. CIL ignores other Escape modes and triggers listed in the table below. For better visibility to software, CIL provides the received Escape mode pattern to the software through a register along with the appropriate interrupt assertion. Software may use this information to perform any relevant action or may trigger an error or ignore it based on the camera sensor requirement.

- NVCSI SCIL
- Table 7.13 D-PHY Escape Entry Codes
- Escape Mode Action
- Command Type
- Entry Command Pattern
(first bit transmitted to last bit transmitted)
- Low-power data transmission (LPDT)
- Mode

