# 64 K

- Unused

- Display Controller
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- SF UDISP
0x000EFFFF:0x000E 64 K
- This range is mapped directly to user space so that DD can
control DisplayPort and HDMI Info frames.
- Only about 8 K of the range is used, but likely the whole page
needs to be reserved so it can be mapped cleanly to user space.
#### 7.5.1.5 Modes of Operation
##### 7.5.1.5.1 Valid Operating Modes
Internally, the Display pipeline operates in one of three modes: Sleep: Display is idle and is not fetching any pixels or sending data to the Output Resource
- Snooze: The RG is actively generating a blank frame, but no pixels are being fetched from
memory. LoadV is still generated every frame. Awake: Display is sending frames to the connected output resource. There are three main controls, which affect the operating mode of Display: OR Ownership: If the head does not own an OR, it is asleep. As long as the head owns an OR, it is Awake or in Snooze.
- Window Ownership: If the head is not asleep and owns at least one window, the head
is Awake. If the head is not asleep and does not own any windows, the head is in Snooze mode.
- Core.Head.RunMode: This method controls if display operates in continuous or OneShot
mode. In Continuous mode, frames are generated automatically if the head is not asleep. In OneShot mode, frames are only generated one at a time as dictated by software. A summary of the possible combinations is listed in the following table.
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- NO
--- ----
- Head ASLEEP, No pixels fetched
- YES
- Continuous
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates
black frames.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline.
- YES
- Continuous
- YES
Head AWAKE.
- Pixels are being fetched and
processed continuously.

- Display Controller
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- YES
- OneShot1
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates a
single black frame and then stall at the end of vertical front porch.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline. Software controls gate LoadV.
- YES
- OneShot1
- YES
- Head AWAKE
- Display fetches and scans out a
single frame in response to each trigger event.
- RG stalls at the end of the vertical
front porch and send Vblank pixels to the OR. (1) Assumes that Stall Lock is also enabled. Note: In the table above, owning a window does not require the window to be enabled. If all windows owned by a head are disabled and the Head owns an OR, the head is still awake. The compositor generates the Default Desktop Color for the active raster. A head with DSC enabled in Snooze mode does not output a black frame. The output may be a gray frame, the DisplayPort Idle pattern, or the HDMI FRL Gap pattern.
##### 7.5.1.5.2 OneShot mode
“OneShot mode” is the generic name for the Display state where frames are not generated automatically. Software manually releases each frame and the RG extends vblank until the next frame is released.
- Two parameters control OneShot mode: 1) How the raster is stalled and 2) how the LoadV is
stalled. These controls are separate to give software the flexibility to tailor the mode to their needs.
- Raster Stalling
The Core.Head.SetStalllock method controls the raster stalling. Raster stalling can be enabled without LoadV blocking if desired.
- Field
- Description
- Enable
- Enables the stall lock feature
- Mode
- CONTINUOUS: The RG only stalls once and then switches to continuous scanout
mode. This is typically used for exiting one-shot mode. ONE_SHOT: The RG stalls every frame.

- Display Controller
- Field
- Description
- LockPin
- This defines whether an external lockpin is going to be used for the unstall
event. If no lockpin is defined, the RG automatically unstalls when a LoadV is received.
- The LoadV indicates that a frame has been released upstream and pixels follow
soon.
- If a lockpin is defined, the RG unstalls on the first lockpin edge after a LoadV
arrives.
- UnstallMode
While stalled, RG continuously repeats the last line of the vertical front porch. This is done to maintain lock with the panel.
- Upon an unstall, this mode selects whether RG finishes the current repeated line
before unstalling or whether it jumps immediately to the start of VSYNC.
- TEPolarity
- Controls whether the external unstall signal is falling edge triggered or rising
edge triggered. (unsupported) After an unstall event, RG waits for NV_PDISP_RG_UNSTALL_SPOOLUP pixel clocks before starting the next frame. Then, Display time can complete spool up before scanout begins.
- LoadV Stalling
In order to block the generation of new frames, LoadV is stalled. Specifically, Early LoadV is stalled. There are two mechanisms by which this can be accomplished: Using methods and using private registers. When Core.Head.SetDisplayRate is set to OneShot, Display only releases one LoadV at a time. Software must push an Update method with the ReleaseElv flag set in order to release a LoadV for another frame. The ReleaseElv flag can be set on any channel associated with that head. Setting ReleaseElv on a Core Update releases an ELV on all active OneShot heads.
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK can also be used to block LoadV. The trigger
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK_ALLOW_ONE_ELV is used to release a LoadV when this blocking
mechanism is used. When either of the LoadV blocking mechanisms are in place, RG Stall must be enabled in order to avoid underflows in the RG.
##### 7.5.1.5.3 Passthrough Mode
All display submodules, which perform any pixel processing must support a passthrough mode, which bypasses all logic that could potentially change the value of a pixel. This includes features like scaling, composition, CSC, and the LUTs (which are also used for FP16 conversion). ISO Hub does not perform any pixel processing so it remains unaffected. The purpose for this mode is to let Display pass an 8 bpc, 10 bpc, or 12 bpc RGB surface directly from the input to the output for software-implemented color formats. G-SYNC panels have a mode, which can update the firmware based on transmitted pixel values, so being able to pass data

- Display Controller
unchanged is important. (Passthrough for 12 bpc content requires the use of the A16R16G10B16 input format.)
##### 7.5.1.5.4 Power Gating
Display has a separate PD_disp power domain for all Display logic.
- Full Display Power Gating
All of Display can be power gated if Display is floorswept or otherwise unused. Power Gating clamps are added on all external interfaces to the display modules. Only display logic must be present in the display partitions so that they can be power gated. If Display is dynamically power gated, software must reinitialize Display on power up. This is the same procedure as boot. There is no context save and restore hardware.
- Asserting Display Reset
1. All display clocks must be running so that reset can propagate: a. b. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l. m. n. o. 2. Shut down all heads, which put all heads in the SLEEP state. a. b. Set Core.Sor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.DSI.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.Wbor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Core Update. Wait for Core Update to complete. (It may be necessary to use the accelerator bits in NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn> to force a channel to make progress if it is stuck.) c. d. e. f.

- Display Controller
3.
- If you cannot shut down a certain head or SOR even with the accelerators; force those
resources to use safe clock. This step must only be done if the previous step did not shut down one of the heads. a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_RG_FORCE_SAFE = _ENABLE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SF_SAFE_CTRL = _SAFE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SOR_MODE_BYPASS = _DP_SAFE
c. 4. Deallocate all Display channels: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DISCONNECT
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DEALLOCATE
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_STATE = _DEALLOC
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_WRITE_PENDING = _NO
c. d. 5. Clear HDA Presence Detect: a. b.
- NV_HDACODEC_AUDIO_HDA_PRESENCE_PW*_PD = NOT_PRESENT
- This step should be done whenever Display resets independently of HDA (e.g. if FN0 resets
but FN1 does not). 6. Clear all interrupts: a. Write 0xFFFFFFFF to all NV_PDISP_FE_EVT_STAT* registers. 7. Hot reset the Display DBB interface to flush out any pending transactions: a. b.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _ENABLE
- Poll for MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_1_0_NVDISPLAY_HOTRESET_STATUS ==
- FLUSH_DONE
8. Fence CBB and DBB: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRDWN
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRDWN. 9. Apply output clamps: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = ON
Delay at least 100 ns to ensure that clamps are engaged. 10. Assert reset: a. The following resets should be asserted: i.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_CO
- RE_RST
ii. 11. 12. After reset is asserted, the clocks branches mentioned in Step 1 can be stopped.
- Before continuing to gate power, ensure that there has been at least 3.7 µs since the last
ungating event. SRAM Sleep and power gating enable. 13. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = ON

- Display Controller
ii.
- SRAM_SLEEP = ON
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii.
- De-asserting Display Reset
1. 2. Wait until at least 3.7 µs have passed after the last entry into the power gating state. Disable SRAM Sleep and logic sleep power gating. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
ii. iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii. 3. The following clocks must be running for 2 µs before de-asserting reset. a. These clocks will be forcibly enabled when the system reset is asserted. If Display is reset independently of the rest of the chip, then software needs to enable these clocks manually. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l.

- Display Controller
m. dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal n. o. p. 4. If necessary, re-assert the reset signal as described in Step 10 above. a. Some APIs that enable clocks automatically de-assert reset. 5. 6. Wait 2 µs for reset to propagate. Disable output clamps: a.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = OFF
7. De-assert reset: a. b.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_COR
E_RST 8. Unfence CBB/DBB/Host Controller: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRUP
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRUP. 9. Take DBB out of flush mode: a.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _DISABLE
10. Initialize display RAMs: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_PUSHBUF -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_STATE_CACHE -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_PRECOMP_WIN_RAM_INIT(*)_SCALER_RTR -->TRIGGER
- Poll for the trigger bits to clear before continuing
c. d. 11. KFUSE read: a.
- NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_CTRL_FUSE_VALID -->YES to trigger Display to start reading the
- KFUSE
- Optional: Poll for NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_STATUS_KEY_READY == _YES
b.
- Impact on Power Gating to Clocks
Unused PLLs should be placed in IDDQ mode by software to save power.

