# 6 :0

- RW
0x0 INTR_COAL_TIMEOUT_VAL: Interrupt Coalescing Timeout Value (ICTOVAL):
- Software uses this field to configure the maximum time
allowed between the completion of a task on the bus and the generation of an interrupt.
- Timer Operation: The timer is reset by software during the
interrupt service routine.
- It starts running when a data transfer task with INT=0 is
completed, after the timer was reset. When the timer reaches the value configured in
- ICTOVAL field it generates an
interrupt and stops.
- The timers unit is equal to 1024 clock periods of the clock
whose frequency is specified in the Internal Timer Clock Frequency field CQCAP register.
- The minimum value is 01h (1024 clock periods) and the
maximum value is 7Fh (127*1024 clock periods).
- For example, a CQCAP field value of 0 indicates a 19.2 MHz
clock frequency (period = 52.08 ns).
- If the setting in ICTOVAL is 10h, the calculated polling period
is 16*1024*52.08 ns= 853.33 us
- NOTE: When ICTOVAL is 0, the timer is not running, and timer-
based interrupts are not generated.
- In order to write to this field, the ICTOVALWEN bit must be
set at the same write operation.
- SDMMCAB_CQE_CQTDLBA_0
- Command Queuing Task Descriptor List Base Address
This register is used for configuring the lower 32 bits of the byte address of the head of the Task Descriptor List in the host memory.
- Offset: 0xf020
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

