# 6 :4

- RW
0x0 PLT:
- Pause Low Threshold. This field configures the threshold of the Pause
timer at which the input flow control signal mti_flowctrl_i (or sbd_flowctrl_i) is checked for automatic retransmission of the Pause packet. The threshold values should be always less than the Pause Time configured in Bits[31:16]. For example, if PT = 100H (256 slot times), and
- PLT = 001, a second Pause packet is automatically transmitted if the
mti_flowctrl_i signal is asserted at 228 (256 - 28) slot times after the first Pause packet is transmitted. The following list provides the threshold values for different values: - 000: Pause Time minus 4 Slot
- Times (PT - 4 slot times) - 001: Pause Time minus 28 Slot Times (PT - 28
slot times) - 010: Pause Time minus 36 Slot Times (PT - 36 slot times) - 011: Pause Time minus 144 Slot Times (PT - 144 slot times) - 100: Pause
- Time minus 256 Slot Times (PT - 256 slot times) - 101-111: Reserved The
slot time is defined as the time taken to transmit 512 bits (64 bytes) on the GMII or XGMII interface. This (approximate) computation is based on the packet size (64, 1518, 2000, 9018, or 16384) + 2 Pause Packet Size + IPG in Slot Times. 3:2
- RO
0x0 Reserved_3_2: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 TFE:
- Transmit Flow Control Enable. When this bit is set, the MAC enables the
flow control operation based on Tx Pause packets. When this bit is reset, the flow control operation in the MAC is disabled, and the MAC does not transmit any Pause packets by itself.
- RW
0x0 FCB:
- Flow Control Busy. This bit initiates a Pause packet if the TFE bit is set. To
initiate a Pause packet, the application must set this bit to 1'b1. During
- Control packet transfer, this bit continues to be set to indicate that a
packet transmission is in progress. When Pause packet transmission is complete, the MAC resets this bit to 1'b0. You should not write to this register until this bit is cleared.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_Q6_TX_FLOW_CTRL_0
The MAC_Q6_Tx_Flow_Ctrl register is per priority and controls the generation of the PFC (Priority Flow Control) packets by the Flow control module of the MAC. A write to a register with the Busy bit set to 1 triggers the Flow Control block to generate a PFC packet for corresponding priority. The fields of the PFC packet are selected as specified in the IEEE 802.3-2018 specification, and the Pause Time value from this register is used in the Pause Time field for corresponding priority in the
- PFC packet. The Busy bit remains set until the PFC packet is transmitted by the MAC. The
application must make sure that the Busy bit is cleared before writing to the register.
- Offset: 0x88
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

