# 7.1.2 Functional Description

@{Key=7.1.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The Host Controller implements Channels and Classes to achieve sophisticated programming and control interface to its clients.
#### 7.1.2.1 Channels
A channel is a thread of execution within the Host Controller. There are 63 Host Controller channels. Each channel has a set of registers and a command FIFO. Each channel can be associated with one or more Host Controller clients. The channel is the primary means of delivering commands to clients, and is described in the Programming Guidelines section.
##### 7.1.2.1.1 Multiple Channels
Similar to a multi-threaded CPU, a channel helps define a context that can be used to allow multiple users of the Host Controller, and plays a role in context switching. A context switch is sent to the client when the channel that programs the client is changed. There is a state change within the Host Controller. However, when channels have non-overlapping usages (for example a VIC channel and NVENC encode channel), there is no need to send context switches.
#### 7.1.2.2 Classes
A Class is an abstraction of a client, device, or resource. It is a collection of methods. A class can be owned by multiple channels; but only one channel may actively be using any class, which is known as a channel's working class. The transfer of working class from one channel to another is known as a context switch and is managed by Host.

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.1 Host Controller Top-Level Block Diagram**
The Host Controller connects to the Control Backbone (CBB) via its AXI Interface block.
- The incoming MMIO commands from system NoC are either processed inside the Host Controller
(Host Controller specific) or routed to its clients. The Host Controller has a point-to-point interface with its clients used for sending requests to and accepting responses or Syncpt requests from its clients.
- The Memory Controller interface to fetch Push-Buffer commands from memory through the
- Command DMA unit. The incoming Push-Buffer (PB) commands are processed inside Command
Processor and afterwards either consumed inside the Host Controller or it generates transactions to the client interface. There is an internal Syncpt unit to synchronize between the Host Controller clients and also between software. The Unit ACTMON block monitors activities of the Host Controller clients. The ACTMON statistics can be used by software for power management.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.2.3 AXI Interface Block
- This block is responsible for AXI3.0 to internal HWR/HRD protocol conversions as well as
maintaining ordering rules. It also has a timeout block to handle those cases where an MMIO transaction to a client got stuck either due to clock gating or power gating in the clients. We want to rely on Host Controller based timeout because the other CBB based timeout require system reset.
##### 7.1.2.3.1 CPU Interface
The key features of this interface are listed below.
- Outstanding Reads
Host Controller supports 16 outstanding transactions.
- Ordering
- RAR
- The Host Controller maintains RAR ordering for read requests from each Master. The Host
- Controller has a shared FIFO to store the request TAG that is also sent to the client
via HWR_host1x2<client>.channel field. This channel field is returned along with a read response from the client, and the Host Controller uses its value to reorder responses to send back to the same master. The read requests for different masters are not ordered and can be bypassed.
- WAW
The Host Controller maintains WAW ordering for write requests within same master. However, the write requests for different masters are not ordered and can be bypassed.
- Therefore software has to do an explicit read after write to enforce ordering between
different clients if required.
- Strongly Ordered (SO) and Normal Writes
- The Host Controller returns ACK for SO and normal writes as soon as it is able to send a
request to the client interface.
- Byte Support
The Host Controller and its clients do not support byte writes.
- Burst Length and Type

- Host Controller
- The Host Controller supports only INCR and FIXED burst types. The maximum burst length
is 16 for burst type INCR and FIXED cases with 4-Byte aligned address.
- Read Response Types
- The Host Controller only supports OKEY and SLVERR responses. The BLF logic in CBB does
not send any transaction outside of client range, so there won't be any decode error cases. The SLVERR is for Host Controller MMIO access time-out.
##### 7.1.2.3.2 Timeout Mechanism
The Host Controller has a timeout mechanism to handle illegal accesses to its clients by generating
- Interrupts for unserviced CPU read/write requests via the timeout register
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_AXI_TIMEOUT_CFG_0. The Host Controller generates a timeout
Interrupt and the violating address is stored in the following registers:
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_AXIREAD_TIMEOUT_ADDR_0
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_AXIWRITE_TIMEOUT_ADDR_0
This timeout register is 32-bit wide and provides timeout value of ~19 seconds. Only the last timeout address is saved when multiple timeouts happen before software clears the timeout Interrupts.
#### 7.1.2.4 Syncpt (Sync Points) Block
The Host Controller employs a hardware mechanism, referred to as Sync Points, using hardware counters and Interrupts to achieve the following: synchronizing between software and Host Controller clients as well as in between Host Controller clients. stalling flows of commands to Host Controller clients. A Sync point is a mechanism to synchronize between software and Host Controller clients and also in between the Host Controller clients. These are implemented as 32-bit counters which are incremented by 1 whenever some pre-destinated condition (or event) occurs. When a counter reaches its maximum value, it wraps back to zero on the next increment. Synchronization using sync points can be done in the following ways: A CPU can be Interrupted when a sync point reaches a pre-specified value. A Host Controller channel can have wait commands for a channel to wait for a pre-specified sync point value. Sync points do not normally reset, but can wrap; the comparison takes into account the possibility of wrapping.

- Host Controller
Note: Sync point wrapping works only if (Syncpt value - Syncpt Threshold) <= 2 (syncpt_width-1) For 16-bit Syncpt comparisons, the difference should be less than or equal to 32768. Software must take care of wrapping issues. For 32-bit comparisons, the difference should be less than or equal to 2,147,483,648. Because of the large value, software will not see any wrapping issues. All Host Controller clients (e.g., VI) implement the following increment Syncpt method:
- Incr_Syncpt<Condition><indx>
The Host Controller client would receive the Incr_Syncpt method and store the index for each condition. Whenever the "condition" event occurs, the client would return the index back to the Host Controller. There are two basic ways for sync point increments: 1. 2. When a CPU writes an index to the Host Controller’s syncpt_cpu_incr register.
- When a Host Controller client has received an incr_syncpt method and the condition
specified by this method has become true. The registers in Syncpt logic, including Syncpt registers and Threshold registers, are implemented with RAM to reduce the area. The Syncpt registers can be read/written by many clients. The write clients are:
- Host Controller clients
- Command processing logic
- Register write logic (direct and indirect paths)
- GPU interface
The read clients are:
- Command processing logic
- Syncpt Interrupt generation logic
- Register read Interface (MMIO path)
- SyncptShim interface
##### 7.1.2.4.1 Virtualization
The Host Controller supports sharing of hardware resources between multiple Guest OSs in a time- sliced manner without impacting latency for high-priority thread in a Guest OS.

- Host Controller
- Software Partition for Virtualization
There can be eight Guest OS, one central RM driver, and one hypervisor in a virtualized system. Each guest OS has a dedicated RM/KMD partition driver to directly send commands to hardware without the need of central KMD/RM driver. The hypervisor is responsible for static configurations like channel/Syncpt allocations and SMMU context IDs (StreamID) assignments per Guest OS. The Central RM handles runtime error, programming error, and timeout related error conditions.
#### 7.1.2.5 Unit Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
The Host Controller implements two-unit ACTMON logic per unit for NVENC, NVDEC, VIC, NVJPG, NVJPG1, and OFA units. These Host Controller clients send their statistic information through a level signal (_monitor[1:0]). From the Host Controller to the unit ACTMON block there is register interface for MMIO access and interrupt interface to route unit ACTMON interrupts to CPU/BPMP.
#### 7.1.2.6 Command Processor
The Command Processor processes the incoming responses for DMA requests to create an offset- data pair, which is either consumed by the Host Controller's internal registers or passed to the Host Controller's clients. It also includes logic to insert waits per channel based on syncpt values.
- The Command Processor comprises Command Pre-processing, Channel RAM, and Command Post-
processing as described below.
##### 7.1.2.6.1 Command Pre-processing
The per-channel Command Pre-processing logic performs the following functions:
- Separating Class commands from DMA commands (Gather/Restart commands). The Gather
and Restart command changes the address pointer of DMA for the particular channel and allows it to fetch from the address indicated through the Gather command.
- Conducting basic virtualization checks for the MLOCK Acquire and Release boundary as well
as "Acquire MLOCK" and "SetClass" pairing.
##### 7.1.2.6.2 Channel RAM
The per-channel FIFOs are implemented in a shared Channel RAM to allow software (the central RM) to resize these per-channel FIFOs based on the use cases.

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.2.6.3 Command Post-processing
The single Command Post-processing logic for all channels performs the following functions:
- Using round-robin arbitration to process the channel commands in the channel FIFOs of the
active channels (i.e., channels with valid entries in the channel RAM and not stalled) to decide if they are destined for the Host Controller or its clients. Stalling a channel based on Syncpt wait. The stalled channel is placed in a wait state until Syncpt condition for that channel is true.
#### 7.1.2.7 Command DMA Block
- The Host Controller improves command programming efficiency by transferring commands in
memory to the appropriate device, using command DMA. The CPU first assembles the command data in memory, and then programs the Host Controller engine to DMA it.
- The Command DMA block has a DMA engine that is shared among all channels of the Host
Controller. It uses a round-robin style arbitration for sending memory requests for all active channels. The arbitration boundary is fixed at 64 Bytes per channel to ensure fair bandwidth to all of the active channels. For each channel, there is a dedicated set of DMA registers for configuring base and limit as well as dedicated control registers. Each channel also has a dedicated StreamID used along with memory requests. For TrustZone channels, DMA logic sends the corresponding TrustZone StreamID along with TrustZone attributes as part of the memory requests. The incoming responses are stored in the Gather Buffer FIFO and Push Buffer FIFOs shared among all channels.
- The command DMA block also has logic to avoid Head Of Line (HOL) blocking for those cases
where a channel is stalled for a longer interval. Basically, the DMA block flushes out the command of the blocking channel from the gather or channel FIFO and send it again when the channel is ready. There is a channel timeout register to control the flushing interval per channel.
#### 7.1.2.8 Interrupt Logic
The Interrupt logic collects both functional and error Interrupts then send them to the Interrupt Controller which can be either LIC or HSM or both.
##### 7.1.2.8.1 Interrupts
The Host Controller (Host1x) has the following interrupt lines going to interrupt controller: 1. 2.
- HOST1X2CPU0_GRAPHICS_INT(central RM/VMID0)
- HOST1X2CPU0_SYNCPT_INT(central RM/VMID0)

- Host Controller
3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
- HOST1X2VM1_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM2_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM3_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM4_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM5_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM6_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM7_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM8_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2CPU1_GRAPHICS_INT(Deprecated interrupt for BPMP)
- HOST1X2CPU1_SYNCPT_INT(Deprecated interrupt for BPMP)
- HOST1X2CPU2_SYNCPT_INT(camera proc0)
- HOST1X2CPU3_SYNCPT_INT(camera proc1)
10. 11. 12. 13. 14. Note: Interrupt numbers 1-11 and 13-16 go to LIC, and interrupt number 12 is routed to BPMP.
##### 7.1.2.8.2 Host Controller General Interrupts
Refer to the THOST registers for more information on these Interrupts.
##### 7.1.2.8.3 Host Controller Syncpt Interrupts
The Host Controller can generate a Syncpt Interrupt upon reaching a threshold value by Syncpt registers. It can also generate an Interrupt to either CPU (referred to as CPU0 below) or AVP (referred to as CPU1 below). An Interrupt is routed to cpuN when: ((SYNCPT<indx> >= SYNCPT_INT_THRESH<indx>) && (SYNCPT_THRESH_INT_MASK<indx> == cpuN) == 1) The comparison takes wrapping into account. See the Syncpt (Sync Points) Block section for more information on wrapping. The status is sticky and is PENDING until cleared. Write 1's to clear. The Host Controller has 12 status registers corresponding to the following Interrupt lines:
- MPCORE(CPU0)
- BPMP(CPU1)
- MPCORE_OS[7:0]
- CAMERAPROC[1:0]

- Host Controller
The status registers corresponding to each Guest OS resides into their corresponding address space. The Host Controller provides an additional Syncpt mask register that acts as a master control for Syncpt Interrupts.
#### 7.1.2.9 Filtering out Kernel Commands from the Gather Buffer
This function maintains user mode driver versus kernel driver protection. The Host Controller kernel driver sets up mode bits that need to be protected from the user mode driver. The Host Controller checks the incoming commands from the Gather Buffer (GB). When it contains the SetClass kernel mode command, the Host Controller drops these commands and raises an Invalid Gbuffer cmd Interrupt to software. Software reads the Interrupt status register to detect the channel that received the invalid gbuffer command. That particular channel needs to be restarted through the channel teardown mechanism. Below is the list of privilege kernel commands.
- SetClass
- SetStreamID
- Extend
- Restart
- Restart_W
The following Interrupt status registers per channel manage an Invalid Gbuffer cmd Interrupt:
- HOST1X_THOST_SCHNL_CH< 62..0>_ILLEGAL_ACCESS_INTR_0
- HOST1X_THOST_SCHNL_CH < 62..0> _ILLEGAL_ACCESS_INTRMASK_0
There may be some cases where a channel can still see setClass, for example, context switching.
- For those channels, this feature must be disabled. This feature is controlled through
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_CH_KERNEL_FILTER_GBUFFER_0< 1..0> , which is under the central
RM range.
#### 7.1.2.10 SMMU Context Protection (StreamID Protection)
##### 7.1.2.10.1 StreamID Switching of Host Controller Clients
- In Host Controller clients, the software model user-mode driver (UMD) composes channel
commands into a Gather Buffer which is then passed to the supervisor-mode RM software. The RM posts the gather buffer to a channel. A single channel may hold requests from multiple processes. To isolate memory context of each process, StreamID switching per process is needed.

- Host Controller
- The StreamID switching commands are part of command stream to minimize latency in the MMIO
path and simplify the software handshake mechanism.
##### 7.1.2.10.2 Client StreamID Register
Each client creates a 7-bit StreamID register to store the current SMMU context.
- Table 7.1 Client StreamID Register
6:0
- STREAMID
i = 0x00
- Indicates SMMU context; software can set an invalid
StreamID at the end of its workload. The client can create multiple StreamID registers depending on software requirements. The client also has to provide StreamID register ranges to the Host Controller so as to detect writes to this register through the MMIO path. For the display engine, it is 12 offset registers corresponding to maximum requirement by display client corresponding to its four windows.
##### 7.1.2.10.3 StreamID Update Mechanism
- Channel-Based Clients
For channel based clients, the Host Controller supports a privilege command, SetStreamID to update the client's SMMU context mapping. This privilege command can be inserted only by RM partition not by user-mode driver; hardware filters out and indicates an error if it comes from any gather-buffer.
- The Host Controller checks the incoming 8-bit StreamID value with StreamID table to check
whether it is assigned to the Guest OS corresponding to that particular channel. In case the incoming StreamID does not belong to a particular Guest OS then the Host Controller drops this command and raise an illegal StreamID error to software (central RM). The channel is stalled until cleared by software. This StreamID is written to the offset pointed out by offset field of SetStreamID command. The Host Controller also asserts the _secgroup[0] bit on HWR_host1x2client interface to indicate a privilege write. Note: it is software's responsibility to make sure that the client is completely idle before initiating StreamID switching of client. Software uses the ENGINE_IDLE Syncpt in client to know whether the client is completely idle or not. Refer to the Standard Set of Incr_Syncpt Conditions section for more details.
- MMIO-Based Clients

- Host Controller
For MMIO programming model clients, the MMIO range of the client is assigned to one Guest OS only. In the absence of a dedicated 64 KiB-page MMIO range per client for the Guest OS, the Host Controller creates a mapping table under the central RM range to store the current Guest OS mapped to the client's MMIO range.
#### 7.1.2.11 Direct Register Access
The Host Controller clients can have asymmetric address space which is assigned as part of global address map document.
##### 7.1.2.11.1 Host Clients
- The following table lists the Host Controller clients
- Table 7.2 Host Controller Clients
- Sr Number
- Client
- Address Width Bits)
- SE1
- SE2
- SE4
- SEU1SE1
- SEU1SE2
- SEU1SE4
- VI_THI
- VI_THI2
- NVCSI
- ISP
- ISP_THI
- PVA0_CLUSTER
- DPAUX
- VI
- VI2
- VIC
- NVENC
- NVDEC

- Host Controller
- Sr Number
- Client
- Address Width Bits)
- NVJPG
- NVJPG1
- TSEC
- NVDLA0
- NVDLA1
- OFA
##### 7.1.2.11.2 Class IDs
The following table lists the class IDs.
- Table 7.3 Host Controller Class IDs
- Client
- Class ID
- NV_HOST1X_CLASS_ID
0x01
- NV_VIDEO_ENCODE_NVENC_CLASS_ID
0x21
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI_CLASS_ID
0x30
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI_FALCON_CLASS_ID
0x31
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI2_CLASS_ID
0xF6
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI_FALCON2_CLASS_ID
0xF7
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_ISP_CLASS_ID
0x32
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_ISP_FALCON_CLASS_ID
0x33
- NV_GRAPHICS_VIC_CLASS_ID
0x5D
- NV_TSEC_CLASS_ID
0xE0
- NV_NVJPG_CLASS_ID
0xC0
- NV_NVJPG1_CLASS_ID
0x07
- NV_NVDEC_CLASS_ID
0xF0
- NV_NVCSI_CLASS_ID
0x38
- NV_SE1_CLASS_ID
0x3A
- NV_SE2_CLASS_ID
0x3B
- NV_SE4_CLASS_ID
0x3D
- NV_SEU1SE1_CLASS_ID
0xF9

- Host Controller
- Client
- Class ID
- NV_SEU1SE2_CLASS_ID
0xFA
- NV_SEU1SE4_CLASS_ID
0xFB
- NV_DPAUX_CLASS_ID
0x7D
- NV_PVA0_CLASS_ID
0XF1
- NV_DLA0_CLASS_ID
0XF3
- NV_DLA1_CLASS_ID
0XF5
- NV_OFA_CLASS_ID
0XF8
##### 7.1.2.11.3 Host Controller Address Space
The Host Controller has a total address map size of 1152 KiB, which is divided into 64 KiB page size of sub ranges as follows. The VMID map per OS range is also shown here for Host Controller MMIO ranges.
- Table 7.4 Host Controller MMIO Address Range
- Range
- Size
- Map
- VMID
- Comments
0x13E0_0000-0x13E0_FFF F 64KB
- Central RM
0x0
- Contains runtime registers which will
include interrupt related registers and channel-vm mapping registers 0x13E1_0000-0x13E 1_FFFF 64KB
- Hypervisor
0xf
- Contains static configuration or
resource allocation registers 0x13E2_0000-0x13E2_FFF F 64KB
- BPMP/R5
- NA
- Contains registers which are to be
accessed by BPMP/R5 only 0x13E3_0000-0x13E3_FFF F 64KB
- HSM
- NA
- Contains registers which are accessed
from HSM only 64KB
- Guest OS 0
0x1 All Channel and syncpt registers. 0x13E5_0000-0x13E5_FFF F 0x13E4_0000-0x13E4_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 1
0x2 0x13E6_0000-0x13E6_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 2
0x3 0x13E7_0000-0x13E7_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 3
0x4 0x13E8_0000-0x13E8_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 4
0x5 0x13E9_0000-0x13E9_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 5
0x6

- Host Controller
- Range
- Size
- Map
- VMID
- Comments
0x13EA_0000-0x13EA_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 6
0x7 0x13EB_0000-0x13EB_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 7
0x8 0x13EF_0000-0x13EF_FFFF 64KB
- Unit Actmon1
- NA
0x13F0_0000-0x13F0_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon2
- NA
0x13F1_0000-0x13F1_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon3
- NA
0x13F2_0000-0x13F2_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon4
- NA
0x13F3_0000-0x13F3_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon5
- NA
0x13F4_0000-0x13F4_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon6
- NA
#### 7.1.2.12 Error Detection
Following are the error conditions for which the Host Controller raises an Interrupt to the central RM. In all of these error conditions, the particular channel is blocked and can be enabled only after channel teardown.
##### 7.1.2.12.1 Timeout
The Host Controller hardware notifies the central RM through an error Interrupt when any channel does not get grant for some N numbers of cycles. This timeout value N is configurable per channel and can be set by the Guest OS.
##### 7.1.2.12.2 Illegal MLOCK
The Host Controller hardware allocates MLOCK register per class ID which should be locked for setting up class for a channel. When any channel doesn't acquire MLOCK or the acquired MLOCK class doesn't match with the proceeding class through SetClass command, then an error condition results. Hardware sends an Interrupt to software (the central RM) to flag this error.
##### 7.1.2.12.3 Illegal Gather Commands
The Host Controller hardware checks for privilege commands from Gather Buffer. When it contains any such command, it filters out that command and notifies the central RM through the
- CMDPP_ILLEGAL_OPCODE_INT Interrupt. This filtering mechanism is configurable through the

- Host Controller
config register of each channel. This config register is protected from the Guest OS such that only the central RM can change filtering mechanism.
##### 7.1.2.12.4 Illegal StreamID
- When any Guest OS tries to use SMMU context from another Guest OS, the Host Controller
hardware detects this condition and raises an error Interrupt (the central RM). The Host Controller compares the incoming StreamID set commands either through channel or MMIO path with the predefined list of StreamID table assigned to the specific Guest OS. This allows StreamID switch command to process only when the incoming StreamID value matches with its list of StreamIDs. Otherwise, it generates an illegal SetSmmuID Interrupt to the central RM.
##### 7.1.2.12.5 Illegal Access
The Host Controller generates an Illegal Access Interrupt to the central RM when any Guest OS tries to access the shared resources not allowed for access either through Push-Buffer (channel) or MMIO path.}(@{Key=7.1.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The Host Controller implements Channels and Classes to achieve sophisticated programming and control interface to its clients.
#### 7.1.2.1 Channels
A channel is a thread of execution within the Host Controller. There are 63 Host Controller channels. Each channel has a set of registers and a command FIFO. Each channel can be associated with one or more Host Controller clients. The channel is the primary means of delivering commands to clients, and is described in the Programming Guidelines section.
##### 7.1.2.1.1 Multiple Channels
Similar to a multi-threaded CPU, a channel helps define a context that can be used to allow multiple users of the Host Controller, and plays a role in context switching. A context switch is sent to the client when the channel that programs the client is changed. There is a state change within the Host Controller. However, when channels have non-overlapping usages (for example a VIC channel and NVENC encode channel), there is no need to send context switches.
#### 7.1.2.2 Classes
A Class is an abstraction of a client, device, or resource. It is a collection of methods. A class can be owned by multiple channels; but only one channel may actively be using any class, which is known as a channel's working class. The transfer of working class from one channel to another is known as a context switch and is managed by Host.

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.1 Host Controller Top-Level Block Diagram**
The Host Controller connects to the Control Backbone (CBB) via its AXI Interface block.
- The incoming MMIO commands from system NoC are either processed inside the Host Controller
(Host Controller specific) or routed to its clients. The Host Controller has a point-to-point interface with its clients used for sending requests to and accepting responses or Syncpt requests from its clients.
- The Memory Controller interface to fetch Push-Buffer commands from memory through the
- Command DMA unit. The incoming Push-Buffer (PB) commands are processed inside Command
Processor and afterwards either consumed inside the Host Controller or it generates transactions to the client interface. There is an internal Syncpt unit to synchronize between the Host Controller clients and also between software. The Unit ACTMON block monitors activities of the Host Controller clients. The ACTMON statistics can be used by software for power management.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.2.3 AXI Interface Block
- This block is responsible for AXI3.0 to internal HWR/HRD protocol conversions as well as
maintaining ordering rules. It also has a timeout block to handle those cases where an MMIO transaction to a client got stuck either due to clock gating or power gating in the clients. We want to rely on Host Controller based timeout because the other CBB based timeout require system reset.
##### 7.1.2.3.1 CPU Interface
The key features of this interface are listed below.
- Outstanding Reads
Host Controller supports 16 outstanding transactions.
- Ordering
- RAR
- The Host Controller maintains RAR ordering for read requests from each Master. The Host
- Controller has a shared FIFO to store the request TAG that is also sent to the client
via HWR_host1x2<client>.channel field. This channel field is returned along with a read response from the client, and the Host Controller uses its value to reorder responses to send back to the same master. The read requests for different masters are not ordered and can be bypassed.
- WAW
The Host Controller maintains WAW ordering for write requests within same master. However, the write requests for different masters are not ordered and can be bypassed.
- Therefore software has to do an explicit read after write to enforce ordering between
different clients if required.
- Strongly Ordered (SO) and Normal Writes
- The Host Controller returns ACK for SO and normal writes as soon as it is able to send a
request to the client interface.
- Byte Support
The Host Controller and its clients do not support byte writes.
- Burst Length and Type

- Host Controller
- The Host Controller supports only INCR and FIXED burst types. The maximum burst length
is 16 for burst type INCR and FIXED cases with 4-Byte aligned address.
- Read Response Types
- The Host Controller only supports OKEY and SLVERR responses. The BLF logic in CBB does
not send any transaction outside of client range, so there won't be any decode error cases. The SLVERR is for Host Controller MMIO access time-out.
##### 7.1.2.3.2 Timeout Mechanism
The Host Controller has a timeout mechanism to handle illegal accesses to its clients by generating
- Interrupts for unserviced CPU read/write requests via the timeout register
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_AXI_TIMEOUT_CFG_0. The Host Controller generates a timeout
Interrupt and the violating address is stored in the following registers:
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_AXIREAD_TIMEOUT_ADDR_0
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_AXIWRITE_TIMEOUT_ADDR_0
This timeout register is 32-bit wide and provides timeout value of ~19 seconds. Only the last timeout address is saved when multiple timeouts happen before software clears the timeout Interrupts.
#### 7.1.2.4 Syncpt (Sync Points) Block
The Host Controller employs a hardware mechanism, referred to as Sync Points, using hardware counters and Interrupts to achieve the following: synchronizing between software and Host Controller clients as well as in between Host Controller clients. stalling flows of commands to Host Controller clients. A Sync point is a mechanism to synchronize between software and Host Controller clients and also in between the Host Controller clients. These are implemented as 32-bit counters which are incremented by 1 whenever some pre-destinated condition (or event) occurs. When a counter reaches its maximum value, it wraps back to zero on the next increment. Synchronization using sync points can be done in the following ways: A CPU can be Interrupted when a sync point reaches a pre-specified value. A Host Controller channel can have wait commands for a channel to wait for a pre-specified sync point value. Sync points do not normally reset, but can wrap; the comparison takes into account the possibility of wrapping.

- Host Controller
Note: Sync point wrapping works only if (Syncpt value - Syncpt Threshold) <= 2 (syncpt_width-1) For 16-bit Syncpt comparisons, the difference should be less than or equal to 32768. Software must take care of wrapping issues. For 32-bit comparisons, the difference should be less than or equal to 2,147,483,648. Because of the large value, software will not see any wrapping issues. All Host Controller clients (e.g., VI) implement the following increment Syncpt method:
- Incr_Syncpt<Condition><indx>
The Host Controller client would receive the Incr_Syncpt method and store the index for each condition. Whenever the "condition" event occurs, the client would return the index back to the Host Controller. There are two basic ways for sync point increments: 1. 2. When a CPU writes an index to the Host Controller’s syncpt_cpu_incr register.
- When a Host Controller client has received an incr_syncpt method and the condition
specified by this method has become true. The registers in Syncpt logic, including Syncpt registers and Threshold registers, are implemented with RAM to reduce the area. The Syncpt registers can be read/written by many clients. The write clients are:
- Host Controller clients
- Command processing logic
- Register write logic (direct and indirect paths)
- GPU interface
The read clients are:
- Command processing logic
- Syncpt Interrupt generation logic
- Register read Interface (MMIO path)
- SyncptShim interface
##### 7.1.2.4.1 Virtualization
The Host Controller supports sharing of hardware resources between multiple Guest OSs in a time- sliced manner without impacting latency for high-priority thread in a Guest OS.

- Host Controller
- Software Partition for Virtualization
There can be eight Guest OS, one central RM driver, and one hypervisor in a virtualized system. Each guest OS has a dedicated RM/KMD partition driver to directly send commands to hardware without the need of central KMD/RM driver. The hypervisor is responsible for static configurations like channel/Syncpt allocations and SMMU context IDs (StreamID) assignments per Guest OS. The Central RM handles runtime error, programming error, and timeout related error conditions.
#### 7.1.2.5 Unit Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
The Host Controller implements two-unit ACTMON logic per unit for NVENC, NVDEC, VIC, NVJPG, NVJPG1, and OFA units. These Host Controller clients send their statistic information through a level signal (_monitor[1:0]). From the Host Controller to the unit ACTMON block there is register interface for MMIO access and interrupt interface to route unit ACTMON interrupts to CPU/BPMP.
#### 7.1.2.6 Command Processor
The Command Processor processes the incoming responses for DMA requests to create an offset- data pair, which is either consumed by the Host Controller's internal registers or passed to the Host Controller's clients. It also includes logic to insert waits per channel based on syncpt values.
- The Command Processor comprises Command Pre-processing, Channel RAM, and Command Post-
processing as described below.
##### 7.1.2.6.1 Command Pre-processing
The per-channel Command Pre-processing logic performs the following functions:
- Separating Class commands from DMA commands (Gather/Restart commands). The Gather
and Restart command changes the address pointer of DMA for the particular channel and allows it to fetch from the address indicated through the Gather command.
- Conducting basic virtualization checks for the MLOCK Acquire and Release boundary as well
as "Acquire MLOCK" and "SetClass" pairing.
##### 7.1.2.6.2 Channel RAM
The per-channel FIFOs are implemented in a shared Channel RAM to allow software (the central RM) to resize these per-channel FIFOs based on the use cases.

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.2.6.3 Command Post-processing
The single Command Post-processing logic for all channels performs the following functions:
- Using round-robin arbitration to process the channel commands in the channel FIFOs of the
active channels (i.e., channels with valid entries in the channel RAM and not stalled) to decide if they are destined for the Host Controller or its clients. Stalling a channel based on Syncpt wait. The stalled channel is placed in a wait state until Syncpt condition for that channel is true.
#### 7.1.2.7 Command DMA Block
- The Host Controller improves command programming efficiency by transferring commands in
memory to the appropriate device, using command DMA. The CPU first assembles the command data in memory, and then programs the Host Controller engine to DMA it.
- The Command DMA block has a DMA engine that is shared among all channels of the Host
Controller. It uses a round-robin style arbitration for sending memory requests for all active channels. The arbitration boundary is fixed at 64 Bytes per channel to ensure fair bandwidth to all of the active channels. For each channel, there is a dedicated set of DMA registers for configuring base and limit as well as dedicated control registers. Each channel also has a dedicated StreamID used along with memory requests. For TrustZone channels, DMA logic sends the corresponding TrustZone StreamID along with TrustZone attributes as part of the memory requests. The incoming responses are stored in the Gather Buffer FIFO and Push Buffer FIFOs shared among all channels.
- The command DMA block also has logic to avoid Head Of Line (HOL) blocking for those cases
where a channel is stalled for a longer interval. Basically, the DMA block flushes out the command of the blocking channel from the gather or channel FIFO and send it again when the channel is ready. There is a channel timeout register to control the flushing interval per channel.
#### 7.1.2.8 Interrupt Logic
The Interrupt logic collects both functional and error Interrupts then send them to the Interrupt Controller which can be either LIC or HSM or both.
##### 7.1.2.8.1 Interrupts
The Host Controller (Host1x) has the following interrupt lines going to interrupt controller: 1. 2.
- HOST1X2CPU0_GRAPHICS_INT(central RM/VMID0)
- HOST1X2CPU0_SYNCPT_INT(central RM/VMID0)

- Host Controller
3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
- HOST1X2VM1_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM2_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM3_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM4_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM5_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM6_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM7_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2VM8_[0..7]_SYNCPT_INT
- HOST1X2CPU1_GRAPHICS_INT(Deprecated interrupt for BPMP)
- HOST1X2CPU1_SYNCPT_INT(Deprecated interrupt for BPMP)
- HOST1X2CPU2_SYNCPT_INT(camera proc0)
- HOST1X2CPU3_SYNCPT_INT(camera proc1)
10. 11. 12. 13. 14. Note: Interrupt numbers 1-11 and 13-16 go to LIC, and interrupt number 12 is routed to BPMP.
##### 7.1.2.8.2 Host Controller General Interrupts
Refer to the THOST registers for more information on these Interrupts.
##### 7.1.2.8.3 Host Controller Syncpt Interrupts
The Host Controller can generate a Syncpt Interrupt upon reaching a threshold value by Syncpt registers. It can also generate an Interrupt to either CPU (referred to as CPU0 below) or AVP (referred to as CPU1 below). An Interrupt is routed to cpuN when: ((SYNCPT<indx> >= SYNCPT_INT_THRESH<indx>) && (SYNCPT_THRESH_INT_MASK<indx> == cpuN) == 1) The comparison takes wrapping into account. See the Syncpt (Sync Points) Block section for more information on wrapping. The status is sticky and is PENDING until cleared. Write 1's to clear. The Host Controller has 12 status registers corresponding to the following Interrupt lines:
- MPCORE(CPU0)
- BPMP(CPU1)
- MPCORE_OS[7:0]
- CAMERAPROC[1:0]

- Host Controller
The status registers corresponding to each Guest OS resides into their corresponding address space. The Host Controller provides an additional Syncpt mask register that acts as a master control for Syncpt Interrupts.
#### 7.1.2.9 Filtering out Kernel Commands from the Gather Buffer
This function maintains user mode driver versus kernel driver protection. The Host Controller kernel driver sets up mode bits that need to be protected from the user mode driver. The Host Controller checks the incoming commands from the Gather Buffer (GB). When it contains the SetClass kernel mode command, the Host Controller drops these commands and raises an Invalid Gbuffer cmd Interrupt to software. Software reads the Interrupt status register to detect the channel that received the invalid gbuffer command. That particular channel needs to be restarted through the channel teardown mechanism. Below is the list of privilege kernel commands.
- SetClass
- SetStreamID
- Extend
- Restart
- Restart_W
The following Interrupt status registers per channel manage an Invalid Gbuffer cmd Interrupt:
- HOST1X_THOST_SCHNL_CH< 62..0>_ILLEGAL_ACCESS_INTR_0
- HOST1X_THOST_SCHNL_CH < 62..0> _ILLEGAL_ACCESS_INTRMASK_0
There may be some cases where a channel can still see setClass, for example, context switching.
- For those channels, this feature must be disabled. This feature is controlled through
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_CH_KERNEL_FILTER_GBUFFER_0< 1..0> , which is under the central
RM range.
#### 7.1.2.10 SMMU Context Protection (StreamID Protection)
##### 7.1.2.10.1 StreamID Switching of Host Controller Clients
- In Host Controller clients, the software model user-mode driver (UMD) composes channel
commands into a Gather Buffer which is then passed to the supervisor-mode RM software. The RM posts the gather buffer to a channel. A single channel may hold requests from multiple processes. To isolate memory context of each process, StreamID switching per process is needed.

- Host Controller
- The StreamID switching commands are part of command stream to minimize latency in the MMIO
path and simplify the software handshake mechanism.
##### 7.1.2.10.2 Client StreamID Register
Each client creates a 7-bit StreamID register to store the current SMMU context.
- Table 7.1 Client StreamID Register
6:0
- STREAMID
i = 0x00
- Indicates SMMU context; software can set an invalid
StreamID at the end of its workload. The client can create multiple StreamID registers depending on software requirements. The client also has to provide StreamID register ranges to the Host Controller so as to detect writes to this register through the MMIO path. For the display engine, it is 12 offset registers corresponding to maximum requirement by display client corresponding to its four windows.
##### 7.1.2.10.3 StreamID Update Mechanism
- Channel-Based Clients
For channel based clients, the Host Controller supports a privilege command, SetStreamID to update the client's SMMU context mapping. This privilege command can be inserted only by RM partition not by user-mode driver; hardware filters out and indicates an error if it comes from any gather-buffer.
- The Host Controller checks the incoming 8-bit StreamID value with StreamID table to check
whether it is assigned to the Guest OS corresponding to that particular channel. In case the incoming StreamID does not belong to a particular Guest OS then the Host Controller drops this command and raise an illegal StreamID error to software (central RM). The channel is stalled until cleared by software. This StreamID is written to the offset pointed out by offset field of SetStreamID command. The Host Controller also asserts the _secgroup[0] bit on HWR_host1x2client interface to indicate a privilege write. Note: it is software's responsibility to make sure that the client is completely idle before initiating StreamID switching of client. Software uses the ENGINE_IDLE Syncpt in client to know whether the client is completely idle or not. Refer to the Standard Set of Incr_Syncpt Conditions section for more details.
- MMIO-Based Clients

- Host Controller
For MMIO programming model clients, the MMIO range of the client is assigned to one Guest OS only. In the absence of a dedicated 64 KiB-page MMIO range per client for the Guest OS, the Host Controller creates a mapping table under the central RM range to store the current Guest OS mapped to the client's MMIO range.
#### 7.1.2.11 Direct Register Access
The Host Controller clients can have asymmetric address space which is assigned as part of global address map document.
##### 7.1.2.11.1 Host Clients
- The following table lists the Host Controller clients
- Table 7.2 Host Controller Clients
- Sr Number
- Client
- Address Width Bits)
- SE1
- SE2
- SE4
- SEU1SE1
- SEU1SE2
- SEU1SE4
- VI_THI
- VI_THI2
- NVCSI
- ISP
- ISP_THI
- PVA0_CLUSTER
- DPAUX
- VI
- VI2
- VIC
- NVENC
- NVDEC

- Host Controller
- Sr Number
- Client
- Address Width Bits)
- NVJPG
- NVJPG1
- TSEC
- NVDLA0
- NVDLA1
- OFA
##### 7.1.2.11.2 Class IDs
The following table lists the class IDs.
- Table 7.3 Host Controller Class IDs
- Client
- Class ID
- NV_HOST1X_CLASS_ID
0x01
- NV_VIDEO_ENCODE_NVENC_CLASS_ID
0x21
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI_CLASS_ID
0x30
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI_FALCON_CLASS_ID
0x31
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI2_CLASS_ID
0xF6
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_VI_FALCON2_CLASS_ID
0xF7
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_ISP_CLASS_ID
0x32
- NV_VIDEO_STREAMING_ISP_FALCON_CLASS_ID
0x33
- NV_GRAPHICS_VIC_CLASS_ID
0x5D
- NV_TSEC_CLASS_ID
0xE0
- NV_NVJPG_CLASS_ID
0xC0
- NV_NVJPG1_CLASS_ID
0x07
- NV_NVDEC_CLASS_ID
0xF0
- NV_NVCSI_CLASS_ID
0x38
- NV_SE1_CLASS_ID
0x3A
- NV_SE2_CLASS_ID
0x3B
- NV_SE4_CLASS_ID
0x3D
- NV_SEU1SE1_CLASS_ID
0xF9

- Host Controller
- Client
- Class ID
- NV_SEU1SE2_CLASS_ID
0xFA
- NV_SEU1SE4_CLASS_ID
0xFB
- NV_DPAUX_CLASS_ID
0x7D
- NV_PVA0_CLASS_ID
0XF1
- NV_DLA0_CLASS_ID
0XF3
- NV_DLA1_CLASS_ID
0XF5
- NV_OFA_CLASS_ID
0XF8
##### 7.1.2.11.3 Host Controller Address Space
The Host Controller has a total address map size of 1152 KiB, which is divided into 64 KiB page size of sub ranges as follows. The VMID map per OS range is also shown here for Host Controller MMIO ranges.
- Table 7.4 Host Controller MMIO Address Range
- Range
- Size
- Map
- VMID
- Comments
0x13E0_0000-0x13E0_FFF F 64KB
- Central RM
0x0
- Contains runtime registers which will
include interrupt related registers and channel-vm mapping registers 0x13E1_0000-0x13E 1_FFFF 64KB
- Hypervisor
0xf
- Contains static configuration or
resource allocation registers 0x13E2_0000-0x13E2_FFF F 64KB
- BPMP/R5
- NA
- Contains registers which are to be
accessed by BPMP/R5 only 0x13E3_0000-0x13E3_FFF F 64KB
- HSM
- NA
- Contains registers which are accessed
from HSM only 64KB
- Guest OS 0
0x1 All Channel and syncpt registers. 0x13E5_0000-0x13E5_FFF F 0x13E4_0000-0x13E4_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 1
0x2 0x13E6_0000-0x13E6_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 2
0x3 0x13E7_0000-0x13E7_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 3
0x4 0x13E8_0000-0x13E8_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 4
0x5 0x13E9_0000-0x13E9_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 5
0x6

- Host Controller
- Range
- Size
- Map
- VMID
- Comments
0x13EA_0000-0x13EA_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 6
0x7 0x13EB_0000-0x13EB_FFF F 64KB
- Guest OS 7
0x8 0x13EF_0000-0x13EF_FFFF 64KB
- Unit Actmon1
- NA
0x13F0_0000-0x13F0_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon2
- NA
0x13F1_0000-0x13F1_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon3
- NA
0x13F2_0000-0x13F2_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon4
- NA
0x13F3_0000-0x13F3_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon5
- NA
0x13F4_0000-0x13F4_FFF F 64KB
- Unit Actmon6
- NA
#### 7.1.2.12 Error Detection
Following are the error conditions for which the Host Controller raises an Interrupt to the central RM. In all of these error conditions, the particular channel is blocked and can be enabled only after channel teardown.
##### 7.1.2.12.1 Timeout
The Host Controller hardware notifies the central RM through an error Interrupt when any channel does not get grant for some N numbers of cycles. This timeout value N is configurable per channel and can be set by the Guest OS.
##### 7.1.2.12.2 Illegal MLOCK
The Host Controller hardware allocates MLOCK register per class ID which should be locked for setting up class for a channel. When any channel doesn't acquire MLOCK or the acquired MLOCK class doesn't match with the proceeding class through SetClass command, then an error condition results. Hardware sends an Interrupt to software (the central RM) to flag this error.
##### 7.1.2.12.3 Illegal Gather Commands
The Host Controller hardware checks for privilege commands from Gather Buffer. When it contains any such command, it filters out that command and notifies the central RM through the
- CMDPP_ILLEGAL_OPCODE_INT Interrupt. This filtering mechanism is configurable through the

- Host Controller
config register of each channel. This config register is protected from the Guest OS such that only the central RM can change filtering mechanism.
##### 7.1.2.12.4 Illegal StreamID
- When any Guest OS tries to use SMMU context from another Guest OS, the Host Controller
hardware detects this condition and raises an error Interrupt (the central RM). The Host Controller compares the incoming StreamID set commands either through channel or MMIO path with the predefined list of StreamID table assigned to the specific Guest OS. This allows StreamID switch command to process only when the incoming StreamID value matches with its list of StreamIDs. Otherwise, it generates an illegal SetSmmuID Interrupt to the central RM.
##### 7.1.2.12.5 Illegal Access
The Host Controller generates an Illegal Access Interrupt to the central RM when any Guest OS tries to access the shared resources not allowed for access either through Push-Buffer (channel) or MMIO path.}.Body)
