# 7.1.3 Programming Guidelines

@{Key=7.1.3; Title=Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 7.1.3.1 Channel Programming Model
- The Host Controller programming models reside on top of the concept of channels. A channel
provides the means for software to supply an ordered sequence of commands to one or more classes. There are no restrictions on how many classes a channel may own or how often it can switch between classes, but it can only operate on one class at a time (known as the working class) and one command at a time. A stalled channel does not allow any commands to proceed from any class – there is a strict ordering of commands. A channel starts processing commands when commands are present, either supplied by the CPU (PIO mode) or gathered from memory. A channel can be stopped explicitly by a CPU write to channel state. Normally, software does static allocation of a channel to one engine only as shown below.

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.2 Single Channel Example**
##### 7.1.3.1.1 Concurrency
Channels operate in parallel and are unhindered by one another except in two specific cases:
- Synchronization points
- Class contention
The following figure depicts such concurrency.

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.3 Channel Concurrency Example**
In the example above, no channel is blocked by another at any time so both can work concurrently. Care must be taken when assigning clients to channels. Channel concurrency as well as channel throughput is crucial for performance. For example, a client that is event-driven with a low latency requirement should exist in its own channel. Conversely, two clients that must be steadily supplied with commands could possibly coexist in the same channel given that their synchronization points are not conflicting (if they have any real synchronization points at all). Clients that operate sequentially on the same piece of data can easily reside in the same channel.

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.1.2 Synchronization
There are 704 total synchronization points (Syncpts). Similar to semaphores, Syncpt methods are issued to clients, mentioning Syncpt counter index and returning condition. Any channel can be made to wait on a Syncpt value of a particular Syncpt index through Host Controller "wait" method. Once the Syncpt method is received by clients, based on Syncpt condition, they return a Syncpt index back to the Host Controller. On receiving a Syncpt index from the client, The Host Controller increments that particular Syncpt counter. The following simple example shows how Syncpts and waits allow for synchronization. The arrows indicate channel dependencies (which channel is waiting for a Syncpt increment from another channel).

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.4 Channel Synchronization Example**

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.1.3 Channel Registers
Channel registers are broken into two functional groups: one grouping is associated with the command FIFO and command delivery to clients; the other grouping is associated with register and memory access.
##### 7.1.3.1.4 Channel Commands
Channel commands can be split into two categories:
- Class commands
A class command is a mechanism to communicate a class write to a client. The channel must have an active class when processing class commands. The active class is set by a SETCL (SetClass) command.
- DMA commands
- DMA commands control what is being fetched. They are processed at the top of the
command FIFO while class commands are processed at the bottom of the command FIFO.
- This is because DMA commands change the command stream and must be processed before
entering the FIFO. Offsets in class commands are relative to the active class' base as they are limited to only the methods in the active class.
- SETCL (SetClass, opcode 0x0)
A channel command that takes a class ID as an argument. SetClass is the sole means to indicate the current ownership of the channel. It also means that a channel can acquire ownership of a class. Subsequent channel commands are directed towards this class. SetClass does not mean implicit acquisition of a module's ownership. It is possible to send commands simultaneously from more than one channel to the same module. When exclusive ownership of a module is required for software correctness, then ACQUIRE_MLOCK and
- RELEASE_MLOCK opcodes should be used to acquire and release the MLOCKn semaphore
bits. An ACQUIRE_MLOCK that fails causes that channel's commands to stall until it wins subsequent MLOCK arbitration (arbitrations happen with each RELEASE_MLOCK). In summary:
- SetClass instructs the channel hardware which module and context to use for the following
commands.
- If multiple channels write simultaneously to the same or different class IDs in the same
hardware module (and no MLOCKs are used), then the actual commands are interleaved with a granularity of one command per channel.
- The SetClass behavior also supports virtualization use cases. See SETCL (SetClass, opcode
0x0, in the Virtualization section.)
- HCFINCR (Increment, opcode 0x1)
- Takes an offset and count as arguments. There are <count[15:0]> data following this

- Host Controller
command to be written starting at the specified offset. The offset is incremented after each write.
- HCFNONINCR (Non-Increment, opcode 0x2)
- Takes an offset and count as arguments. There are <count[15:0]> data following this class
command to be written to the specified offset. Non-increment indicates that the offset is not to be incremented per data write.
- MASK (Mask, opcode 0x3)
- Takes an offset and count as arguments. The number of data to write after the command is
equal to the number of set bits in the count. Each data is written to the specified offset plus the next active bit location. For example, a count equal to 0x5 would have two data that are written to (offset+0) and (offset+2).
- IMM (Immediate, opcode 0x4)
Takes an offset and 16-bit data as arguments. The 16-bit data is written to the offset.
- EXTEND (opcode 0xe)
- The EXTEND opcode includes ACQUIRE_MLOCK and RELEASE_MLOCK opcodes. See the
Virtualization section for more details.
- ACQUIRE_MLOCK uses MLOCK registers, which are allocated by software. MLOCK (Module
- LOCK) bits are visible to all channels. ACQUIRE_MLOCK sets MLOCK<indx> to 1. However,
when MLOCK<indx> is already 1, the channel stalls until the MLOCK arbiter grants the lock to that channel. A channel's priority can be set using the
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_CH_HIPRI_0 register. The ACQUIRE_MLOCK command is a
privilege command.
- RELEASE_MLOCK clears the MLOCK<indx> bit when it is locked by the same channels
(otherwise it is ignored). Thus, when one or more channels are waiting, the MLOCK arbiter picks a channel and allows that channel's ACQUIRE_MLOCK to complete. For virtualization use cases, the RELEASE_MLOCK command is a privilege command.
- SETPYLD (opcode 0x9, <Data[15:0]>)
This command sets the internal 16-bit count register per channel to set the payload value to be used by the proceeding SETSTRMID/HCFINCR_W, HCFNONINCR_W commands.
- HCFINCR_W (opcode 0xa)
- This command is similar to HCFINCR command except that it uses a 22-bit offset value. The
count value comes from an internal payload register which was set through a previous SETPYLD command.
- HCFNONINCR_W (opcode 0xb)
- This is similar to the HCFNONINCR command except that it uses a 22-bit offset value. The
count value comes from an internal payload register which was set through a previous SETPYLD command.
##### 7.1.3.1.5 Channel Command FIFO
- The command FIFO is loaded either the CDMA or via PIO access. PIO is mainly used for debug
purposes, but it allows a Host Controller master to fill the command FIFO with channel commands

- Host Controller
by writing into the per channel CMDFIFO_PIOWR_0 register. PIO Command FIFO accesses should not be issued while a Gather process is busy. A command FIFO has a set of registers that point to a location in memory where a sequence of channel commands resides. This sequence of commands is generally referred to as a Push-buffer. A Host Controller master can write either to DMAPUT or DMASTART register to trigger command fetching by the CDMA. DMASTART indicates where to start fetching, and DMAPUT indicates where to stop. DMAGET is a read-only reference to the present location of the command FIFO; it is incremented when the command is popped from the command FIFO. DMAPUT and DMAGET are relative addresses to DMASTART.
- DMAEND provides an upper boundary to prevent the CDMA from fetching illegal addresses;
fetching ceases when DMAGET equals DMAEND. The command FIFO can be halted by writing the DMASTOP field in the DMACTRL register. DMACTRL also provides a mechanism to reset the DMAGET pointer (DMAGETRST field) to either 0 or to the value of DMAPUT (DMAINITGET field).
##### 7.1.3.1.6 Channel Control
Channel status and control resides in the synchronous register space of the Host Controller address map. These registers are aliased in each channel's space. The details of these registers are as below:
- CH<0..8>_STATUS
Status includes client ownership and whether the channel is blocked or not.
- CH_TEARDOWN
Using this register each channel can be reset, which is referred to as a teardown. This means all channel states are cleared and all client and class ownerships are relinquished.
- MOD_TEARDOWN
Similar to channel teardown, there exists a mechanism to reset modules. Setting this register in the Host Controller can clear all states associated with a given client/module. <client>_STATUS This register indicates the client's currently active class.
#### 7.1.3.2 Priority between Channels
The current MLOCK arbiter uses two round-robin rings, high and low priority. A high priority acquire request is always granted before a low priority request.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.3 ACQUIRE_MLOCK
- The ACQUIRE_ML OCK opcode replaces the implicit locking of modules previously done by
HCFSSETCL. This is done using MLOCK registers, which is allocated by software. MLOCK (Module LOCK) bits are visible to all channels. ACQUIRE_MLOCK sets MLOCK [indx] to 1, but if MLOCK[indx] is already 1, then the channel stalls until the mlock arbiter grants the lock to that channel. The MLOCK arbiter uses two round-robin rings with high and low priority. A high-priority acquire request is always granted before a low-priority request. A channel's priority can be set using the HOST1X_SYNC_CH_PRIORITY_0 field.
#### 7.1.3.4 Syncpt Protection
The Host Controller hardware provides inter OS Syncpt protection to support virtualization use cases and for single OS use cases. it adds inter-channel and inter-application Syncpt protection.
##### 7.1.3.4.1 Inter OS Syncpt Protection
- The Host Controller creates a Syncpt-VMID table under the central RM (VMID0) range through
which the central RM allocates Syncpts to various Guest OSs.
- Table 7.5 Syncpt-VMID Mapping Table
- Syncpt Number
- VMID[3:0]
- VMID Reset Value
<vmID1> <Undefined> … … <Undefined> <vmIDN-1> <Undefined> For each HWR transaction to clients the Host Controller sends VMID[3:0] field associated with that Guest OS as part of the 10-bit channel ID(VMID[3:0],ChID[5:0]) field. Clients are supposed to return this 10-bit channel ID field along with the Syncpt response packet.
- Based on the VMID of the incoming Syncpt response packet (indicated through VNID[9:6] of
channel ID[9:0] field) and stored VMID for corresponding Syncpt index, the Host Controller allows or denies Syncpt increment requests. When it is an illegal request, the Host Controller also raises an illegalAccess error to the central RM.
- For MMIO-based programming models, only Inter-OS checks are performed. Channel and appID
checks are ignored in that case assuming the partition RM holding that MMIO range has already completed the check.

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.4.2 Intra OS Syncpt Protection
Within a single OS, the Host Controller adds Syncpt protection between channels associated with that channel and different applications sharing the same channel in that OS. The Host Controller creates a Syncpt-ChAppID mapping table in each Guest OS range so that each OS can assign its own pool of channels to various channels and various applications within that OS.
- Table 7.6 Syncpt-ChAppID Mapping Table [All MMIO ranges]
- Syncpt Number
- Application ID[7:0]
- ChID[5:0]
<appID0> <chID0> … … … <appIDn-1> <chIDn-1> AppID is 8-bit wide to support the maximum 256 applications per channel. For the MMIO-based programming model, the channel ID is 0x3F to indicate MMIO channel. For each hardware transaction to clients, the Host Controller sends the vector in ChID[5:0] associated with the channel number or MMIO range of the Guest OS together as the channel ID[9:0] field (= {VMID[3:0],ChID[5:0]}). On the response packets, the clients return this channel ID[9:0] field and based on the ChID of the incoming Syncpt response packet and stored ChID for the corresponding Syncpt index the Host Controller allows or denies Syncpt increment request. When an illegal request occurs, the Host Controller also raise an illegalAccess error to the central RM. An additional status register indicates this Inter-channel illegal access. Note that hardware does not support APPID protection for THOST class. Either software need to prevent THOST class from GB or only one application should be used per channel in a given time so that APPID protection is not required.
##### 7.1.3.4.3 Client Changes to Support Channel ID
The Syncpt interfacing logic of clients stores the incoming channel ID [9:0] field along with Syncpt request packets per Syncpt. For continuous Syncpt registers, the clients store the channel field which is a part of the MMIO write command. Once the Syncpt setup condition is true, the clients return the corresponding stored channel value along with the Syncpt response packet over the HRD interface.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.5 DMA Commands
- RESTART (Restart or Jump, opcode 0x5)
- This command specifies an offset relative to DMASTART. The next command to be fetched is
from (DMASTART + offset). The jump address granularity is 16 bytes because the lower 4 bits are always zeroes.
- RESTART_W (Restart or Jump, opcode 0xd)
This command is similar to the legacy RESTART command with the following differences:
- It consists of two words, (Lower 28 bits, Upper 10 bits)
The jump address granularity is 4 bytes because the lower 2 bits are always zeroes.
- GATHER (opcode 0x6)
- This command comprises of two words and has arguments: <offset, insert, type, count> and
<address>. When GATHER is processed, <count> data is fetched from the address and inserted into the command stream. When the <insert> argument is enabled, it inserts either an HCFINCR or HCFNONINCR opcode preceding the fetched data, which is specified by <type>. DMA commands do not need an active class, but often are processed when an active class exists. In the case of the GATHER command, when <insert> is enabled, there must be an active class.
- Gather_0
31:28
- OPCODE
- GATHER = 0x6
27:16
- OFFSET
- Starting offset (if inserting opcode into the stream)
- INSERT
- Insert an opcode (type set by TYPE, initial offset set by
- OFFSET), immediately before the gathered data stream
- Type
- Type of opcode to be inserted (incrementing or non-
incrementing). Only valid if INSERT is enabled. 0: HCFNONINCR 1: HCFINCR 13:0
- Count
- Count of 32-bit words to be gathered from memory
- Gather_1
31:2
- Address
- Base address of memory
- While sending the address to memory, the Host Controller sets the upper 8-bit address to 0
to support 40-bit addressing.
- GATHER_W (opcode 0xc)
- This gather command provides 40-bit address support. It is similar to the legacy GATHER
command but with wide address support and without the insert feature. The gather stream can have self-contained commands only. This command comprises three words with the following arguments: Count, Lower 32-bit address, Upper 32-bit address.
- Gather_W_0
31:28
- OPCODE
- GATHER_H = 0xc

- Host Controller
15:0
- Count
- Count of 32-bit words to be gathered from memory
- Gather_W_1
31:2
- Addr_Low
- Lower 32-bit base address
- Gather_W_2
7:0
- Addr_High
- Upper 8-bit base address
- When GATHER_W is processed, <Count> data is fetched from MC base address (Addr_High,
Addr_Low) and inserted into the command stream.
##### 7.1.3.5.1 Command DMA (CDMA) Registers
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMASTART_0 (n is the channel number.)
This register holds the start address of memory location for fetching DMA for the channel as indicated.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMASTART_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMASTART memory address to support 40-bit MC
addressing for the channel as indicated.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAPUT_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register triggers a DMA fetch from memory for the channel as specified, when the PUT
register does not equal the GET register. This address is relative to the DMASTART base address. It does not support byte writes. All 4-byte data needs to be programmed.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAPUT_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMAPUT memory address for the channel as
indicated.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAGET_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register tracks the MC offset, which the DMA engine has read. It gets incremented as
entries are loaded from the channels command buffer into the FIFO. This address is relative to the DMASTART base address for the channel as specified..
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAGET_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMAGET memory address.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAEND_0 (n is the channel number.)
This is the boundary of illegal addresses (at the end of either the push buffer or physical memory) and is an offset relative to the DMASTART address for the channel as specified.
- This is designed to prevent DMA from prefetching illegal addresses. When DMA reaches this
address before seeing a RESTART, it stops. This would be a software error condition.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAEND_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMAEND memory address for the channel as
specified.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMACTRL_0 (n is the channel number.)
The various fields of DMA control register for the channel as specified are described below:

- Host Controller
- DMAGETRST
- Reset GET pointer to 0. Useful for cleaning up a crashed channel. DMAGET value is not
updated instantly. It takes four cycles between programming of reset and valid DMAGET.
- DMAGETINIT
Reset GET pointer to the value of DMAPUT when the DMAGETRST field is asserted.
- DMASTOP
Stop DMA from fetching on the channel. A Command DMA channel needs to be enabled for PIO-gather to work.
##### 7.1.3.5.2 Access Registers
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_FIFOSTAT_0 (n is the channel number.)
- CFNUMEMPTY is the number of free slots available in the per-channel command FIFO
(needed for PIO or polling for completion of a wait).
#### 7.1.3.6 Progress Status
Channel progress is monitored through two means – GET and Syncpts. GET is a channel state that indicates the address of the last command that has been fetched from memory and sent to the channel. GET is the same as DMAGET. Syncpts are counter registers that are incremented when specified events occur (e.g., after the completion of each operation done by a module). The 32-bit Syncpt values typically are monotonically increasing and can be used for in-channel waits and to indicate channel completion status. The GET and Syncpt registers can also be read directly (out-of- band) by the CPU.
#### 7.1.3.7 Programming Model for MMIO-Based Clients (Single MMIO
- Range)
The client MMIO range is statically assigned to only a single Guest OS other than the central RM(VMID0).
- That particular Guest OS maintains all SMMU contexts in clients. Basically, all StreamID
registers of clients.
- The Host Controller hardware needs to protect the StreamID update from this Guest OS
(through MMIO path) and not conflict with other Guest OSs (Inter-OS StreamID protection) Similarly for Syncpts, the Host Controller hardware only does Inter-OS protection. The Intra-OS protection for StreamID and Syncpt is the responsibility of the Guest OS only, which owns that particular MMIO range. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.8 Programming Model for MMIO-Based Clients (Multiple MMIO
- Range)
- The client has dedicated MMIO ranges for each Guest OS, and each MMIO range is statically
assigned to only a single Guest OS other than the central RM (VMID0). That particular Guest OS maintains the SMMU contexts within its range in the client.
- Host Controller hardware needs to ensure that the StreamID update from this Guest OS
(through the MMIO path) does not conflict with other Guest OS (Inter-OS StreamID protection). Similarly for Syncpt, the Host Controller hardware does Inter-OS protection only.
- The Intra-OS protection for StreamID and Syncpt is the responsibility of the Guest OS that
owns that particular MMIO range. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
##### 7.1.3.8.1 Basics of Syncpt-Based Programming Model
The basic programming model that software follows is: Each module should be programmed to do a unit of work (an operation) by the Host Controller using CDMA and Push Buffers (PBs). Examples of an operation include:
- BLT (VIC)
- Draw a set of triangles (GPU)
- Encode a single frame (NVENC)
When nothing else is programmed, module goes idle until the Host Controller sends commands to start another operation (no continuous mode). To do its operation, a module reads data from memory and writes the results to memory. Modules interact with each other using memory buffers: one module is the producer of data, and another is the consumer of that data.
##### 7.1.3.8.2 Basic Synchronization
- There are two basic needs for synchronization: management of memory buffers and timing of
control register writes. Memory buffers used to pass data from one module to the next use a producer/consumer model with circular buffers. To prevent buffer underflow and overflow, synchronization needs to be done in both directions:
- The consumer cannot read until the producer is done writing (and the writes are committed
to memory). The producer cannot reuse an output buffer (i.e., write to buffer) until the consumer is done reading the buffer. Thus, the synchronization events required for memory buffers are:

- Host Controller
The module has completed all reads from the buffer.
- The module has completed all writes to the buffer (and they are committed by the memory
controller). To understand the requirements for timing the writes to control registers, a typical sequence is provided below: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. reg wr for operation A reg wr for operation A reg wr (trigger) for operation A reg wr for operation B reg wr for operation B reg wr (trigger) for operation B When no WAIT method is placed between the trigger for A and the first register write for B, then in the worst case, corruption of operation A may occur because the new value of the control register is used before operation A is done. For modules that protect against this corruption, there is still the undesirable behavior of the module delaying the register write and subsequently causing back pressure on the Host Controller's write bus. For direct register reads by ISRs occurring asynchronously with respect to the channel command writes, it must be ensured that the Host Controller bus does not stall for significant periods of time. To synchronize writes to a control register, a safe time to start writing the register for the next operation is when: No corruption occurs for previous operations. No stalls of the HWRBUS bus.
##### 7.1.3.8.3 Standard Set of Incr_Syncpt Conditions
The following values of the "incr_syncpt cond" field are predefined: 0 (Immediate): Return indx to Host Controller immediately (used by software push-buffer allocation and helpful for debug). 1 (Op_Done): Return indx to Host Controller when all previously triggered operations have completed and their writes to memory are committed. 2 (Rd_Done): Return indx to Host Controller when all previously triggered operations have completed their reads from memory. 3 (Reg_Wr_Safe): Return indx to Host Controller when it is safe to program registers for the next operation. Safe means no corruption to previous operations, and no stalling of Host Controller write bus should occur. 4 (Engine_Idle): The engine returns Syncpt index to Host Controller only when all previously queued operations to an engine are completed including commitment of their memory writes. There are special cases which require the use of additional condition values. Some modules have multiple read buffers, thus requiring (condition == 2) that indicates all reads to all buffers

- Host Controller
complete. It is useful for software to know when reads are done to a specific input buffer. For some modules, e.g., VI, there are different safe times to update different sets of registers, so (condition == 3) needs several variations (one for each "safe time"). If a module can have two operations happening at one time (as in VI), then special considerations needs to be made for these cases: either two separate Incr_Syncpt methods or one Incr_Syncpt method with many special conditions. For some modules, one condition can replace another if the two conditions always happen within a short period of time of each other. Then the condition that always happens last can be used for both.
##### 7.1.3.8.4 Continuous Mode — Display
For each display, software wants a free-running Syncpt increment on every display "Vsync". The most appropriate implementation of this is to have an additional register which has "Enable" and "Indx" fields to control the increment of Syncpt on every Vsync event. If enable is set, then on every Vsync display would return this "Indx" back to the Host Controller. Host Controller clients implements the logic associated with these registers. When this continuous mode is enabled, the client should set a pending bit for when the condition occurs. When the pending bit is set, the client arbitrates for the hrd_<client>2host1x bus and when selected sends "Indx" tagged with "Syncpt type" on the hrd_ bus. After successfully sending the Indx on the HRD bus, the client clears the pending bit. For the continuous syncpt case, the client has to implement logic to return the TrustZone flag and "channel" fields back to Host Controller along with syncpt response which were received earlier as part of the continuous syncpt update request. See the Host Clients section for a list of the Host Controller clients.
##### 7.1.3.8.5 Allowing Multiple Pending INCR_SYNCPTs
Clients can have multiple pending Syncpts which are queued into the client's Syncpt FIFOs, which are dedicated ones for each Syncpt condition. The behavior of these Syncpt FIFOs is controlled by an "INCR_SYNCPT_CNTRL" register in the client's register space:
##### 7.1.3.8.6 Syncpt Protection
The Host Controller supports the following types of protection mechanisms for Syncpts:
- Syncpt Protection Between Multiple Guest OS
- To support virtualization use cases, the Host Controller protects Syncpts between Guest
- OS. Host Controller hardware creates a Syncpt-VMID Mapping table to store Syncpt
allocation which is statically done by the central RM (VMID0) between Guest OSs. Based on this table, Host Controller allows or denies Syncpt increment initiated from an OS.
- Within a Single Guest OS Syncpt Protection Between Multiple Channels

- Host Controller
- Each Guest OS allocates Syncpts from its assigned pool of Syncpts to various channels
through a Syncpt-VMID Mapping table. Based on this table, the Host Controller protects increments of Syncpts from another channel within that Guest OS.
- Within a Single Channel of a Single Guest OS Syncpt Protection Between Multiple
- Applications
- The Host Controller protects increments of Syncpt by various applications which are
sharing the same channel in a Guest OS. This is done through a Syncpt-VMID Mapping table, where each Guest OS assigns Syncpts to various applications sharing same channel.
- There is also a hardware register per channel and per MMIO range to store the current
AppID using that channel or MMIO range.
- Based on this hardware register and Syncpt Mapping Table, the Host Controller does
- Syncpt protection between various apps sharing the same channel within a Guest OS as
shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 7.5 Syncpt Protection**

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.8.7 Virtualization Methodology
The Host Controller supports virtualization with dedicated hardware resources (channels and Syncpts) with arbitration through partitioned RM (inside Guest OS) based privilege commands. The basic assumption here is that each partition RM can be trusted to send kernel specific commands for channel switching. Also, each submit from Guest OS contains commands for only one frame so that switching latency cannot be more than one frame. The Host Controller implements dedicated 63 channels and 1024 Syncpts as required by software to support eight Guest OSs with no change in behavior of channel functionality. Channels and Syncpts are allocated to each Guest OS by Hypervisor and hardware protects it from interference from other Guest OSs.
- Mapping of channels and Syncpts to a Guest OS can be done in an asymmetric manner so that
based on configuration, the Hypervisor can change allocation of Syncpt and channels. Host Controller supports an 7-bit StreamID register for storing SMMU context. This StreamID configuration in the client is done by the partition RM inside each Guest OS. This partition RM can select StreamID from a list assigned to it by the hypervisor. The hypervisor also configures the list of StreamID per Guest OS inside the Host Controller, and the Host Controller checks the incoming StreamID config value from each Guest from this list and that is allowed to go to client only if it matches this list. A Guest OS uses the SETSTRMID privilege command to set the SMMU context for an engine class from its allocated StreamID list. Within a single Guest OS it is the responsibility of partitioned RM (inside Guest OS) to make sure that StreamID values do not overlap between multiple threads. The push-buffer fetch from each channel uses distinct SMMU context, configured through the 7- bit StreamID configuration register per channel, which is programmed by the partition RM of the Guest OS while hardware ensures that it does not interfere with other StreamIDs. The arbitration of an engine between groups of channels is done through partitioned RM based privilege commands inserted at each submit boundary. These are ML OCK_ACQUIRE/RELEASE commands that are privilege and compulsory used to pin an engine to channel unless it is released through MLOCK_RELEASE command from the same channel. So, a channel not inserting ACQUIRE_MLOCK prior to SetClass is not allowed to use that class. Because channel switching happens at the submit boundary only, no engine context switching is required. Partitioned RM inserts proper SMMU context–switching commands at each submit boundary to ensure proper context. To prevent corruption from UMD, the Host Controller hardware filters out privilege commands (SetClass, Acquire(Release) MLOCK, and SetStrmID) from the Gather Buffer.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.9 Host Controller Class
- The Host Controller has its own class that can be executed from the command FIFO. It is
comprised of methods to access client registers as well as methods to control channel flow.
##### 7.1.3.9.1 INCR_SYNCPT
All Host Controller modules, including the Host Controller itself, implement the Incr_Syncpt class.
- Incr_Syncpt.Cond ([17:10])
- Incr_Syncpt.Indx ([9:0])
For the Host Controller, this method immediately increments Syncpt<Indx> irrespective of the condition. The Indx field supports 704 Syncpts.
##### 7.1.3.9.2 WAIT_SYNCPT (Wait on Syncpt)
The command dispatches stalls until the Syncpt counter pointed to by the Indx field reaches the threshold value specified in the Thresh field:
- Wait_Syncpt.Indx ([31:24])
- Wair_Syncpt.Thresh ([23:0])
The channel waits until the following is true: (Syncpt<Indx>[15:0] >= Thresh[15:0]), where the ">=" takes wrapping into account. More specifically, the channel waits until: (((Syncpt<Indx> – thresh) & (1 << 15)) != 0) Note: To ensure backward compatibility, only a maximum of 256 Syncpts can be accessed.
##### 7.1.3.9.3 WAIT_SYNCPT_INCR<indx> (Waits until Syncpt increments)
The channel stalls until Syncpt<Indx> is incremented. This wait method is not recommended.
##### 7.1.3.9.4 LOAD_SYNCPT_PAYLOAD_32 ([31:0])
- This method loads a 32-bit value into the corresponding channel's Channel_Syncpt_Payload
register: (Channel_Syncpt_Payload[31:0 ] = Payload[31:0] )

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.9.5 WAIT_SYNCPT_32 <Indx(10)>
This method stalls the current channel until following condition is true: ((SYNCPT<indx>[31:0] - PAYLOAD[31:0]) & 0x80000000 == 0) Here the Payload value is taken from Channel_Syncpt_Payload of the current channel. This is essentially a wrapping stall until (SYNCPT<indx>[31:0] >= PAYLOAD[31:0]). The index <indx> supports 704 Syncpts.
#### 7.1.3.10 Class-based Programming
The Host Controller supports a programming interface that is based on writing to offsets within a "class" that implements a function, rather than to specific register offsets and formats. By using the class interface, register offsets/formats need not remain fixed so there are no chip specifics in the API. This allows both hardware flexibility and software driver compatibility between SoC generations.
#### 7.1.3.11 Context Switching
- Context management of modules included by the Host Controller is completely under software
control. When context switching is needed (software knows this), it issues context switching routine to save the current context readying for the switch to the new context.
##### 7.1.3.11.1 Example Software Sequence for StreamID Switch
- Channel-based Programming Mode
Consider two different apps (Gaming and Banking), running in a sequential manner in a single OS, which are going to share the same channel and same engine (VIC). Here software should be using EngineIdle Syncpt to ensure engine context is clean before switching to new SMMU context. The Push Buffer (PB) sequences are shown as follows: A) Gaming App(GuestOs0) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
- Acquire Mlock
- SetClass(VIC)
- SetStrmID(global SMMU ID)
- Setup Syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(host1x)
- Wait for syncpt (EngineIdle) -> To ensure engine is completely idle before SMMU context
switch
- SetClass(VIC)
7.

- Host Controller
8. 9.
- SetStrmID(gaming SMMU context)
- Gather(gaming app)
- Setup syncpt(EngineIdle)
- Setclass(host1x)
wait for syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(VIC)
- SetStrmID(invalid smmu context)
- Release Mlock
10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. B) Banking App(GuestOs1) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
- Acquire Mlock
- SetClass(vic)
- SetStrmID(global smmu ID)
- Setup Syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass (host1x)
- Wait for syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(vic)
- SetStrmID(banking smmu context)
- Gather(banking app)
- Setup syncpt(EngineIdle)
- Setclass (host1x)
- Wait for syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(vic)
- SetSteamID(invalid smmu context)
- Release Mlock
10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15.
- MMIO-based Programming Mode
For MMIO-based programming clients, specific sequences SMMU context update is used. StreamID changes are synchronized with window updates by software to use the display buffer flip mechanism for StreamID update synchronization without the EngineIdle Syncpt.
#### 7.1.3.12 Specific Programming Guidelines
This secti on provides the programming guidelines for certain use cases:
- For Virtualization during Initialization time, the Hypervisor should program all shareable
resources (channel/Syncpt/clients) through configuration registers and table. Enable Syncpt protection (SYNCPT_PROT_EN register) by Hypervisor.
- For some use cases, VMID1 (Guest OS0), which is default OS, should be used to access
shareable resources.

- Host Controller
- For MMIO based programming model, the Hypervisor software has to make sure
programming of MMIO Range-VMID table before accessing that client.
- For those clients that use multiple channels per single OS, the Hypervisor should disable
MLOCK checks.
- Central RM should enable filtering of kernel commands as mentioned in the Filtering Out
Kernel Commands from the Gather Buffer section above.
##### 7.1.3.12.1 Programming Sequence for Functional Syncpt Interrupts
Functional Syncpt interrupts are threshold interrupts that are triggered when a Syncpt reaches a pre-programmed value. The targets for these interrupts are CPU0/1, CPU2/3 (camera processor),
- TrustZone CPU (if the Syncpt is TrustZone secure), VM 1-8 (Each VM has an eight dedicated
interrupt line). This section elaborates on register update sequence during setting and clearing of this interrupt. 1. Threshold value is programmed in the SYNC_INTR_THRESH[i] register in the sync aperture. This value is compared to the Syncpt register.
- For Syncpt interrupt per VM, Software also programs per Syncpt interrupt destination
register HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_VM1_SYNCPT_INTR_DEST_VM_[0..1023] register to select interrupt line per VM to use for a particular Syncpt. If the threshold has been reached, threshold mask registers for all the targets are checked [SYNCPT_THRESH_INTRMASK_CPU0/CPU1/CPU2/CPU3/VMxx]. In case the Syncpt is marked TrustZoneSYNCPT_THRESH_INTRMASK_CPU[i] is checked.
- SYNCPT_THRESH_INTRSTATUS_xx[i] register is updated based on mask settings and
threshold condition. (xx can mean any target CPU0/1/2/3, TrustZoneCPU, VMxx)
- Based on the target, the appropriate field in the INTRSTATUS_0 register is updated and the
interrupt is sent to the target.
- Once the interrupt is logged, the appropriate bit in the SYNCPT_THRESH_INTRSTATUS_xx[i]
should be cleared. A Guest OS can also set the Syncpt interrupt on Syncpt which are associated with other Guest OS using HOST1X_THOST_SYNCPT_SYNCPT_INTR_THRESH_0[0..1023][0..7] register. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
##### 7.1.3.12.2 Programming Sequence for Channel Teardown
1.
- While the channel is in active state, the channel DMA is de-activated by writing to the
DMASTOP bit in the per-channel DMACTRL register.
- The per-channel CMDPROC_STOP register should be written to stop the command
processor. The channel teardown register is written 1 to initiate a teardown. After teardown complete, the cmdfifo_stat register is read to make sure it comes to its reset value and stays there for next few cycles. 2. 3. 4.

- Host Controller
5. 6. Software resets the client to ensure it is idle.
- Before reprogramming the same channel to another Push Buffer, the MOD_TEARDOWN
register is written to clean context of channel.
- CMDPROC is written to reset value(0) so the channel can start again. The channel is
programmed with a new Push Buffer accessing same client. Data checks are done to ensure it behaves correctly with new programmed data. 7. 8.
##### 7.1.3.12.3 Programming Sequence for Client Reset
1.
- Enable clamp for client using the
- HOST1X_THOST_SCR_PROT_COMMON_MOD_CLAMP_EN_SET_0/1 register (via BPMP)
- Reset client
- Disable clamp for client using the
- HOST1X_THOST_SCR_PROT_COMMON_MOD_CLAMP_EN_CLR_0/1 register (via BPMP)
2. 3.
##### 7.1.3.12.4 Programming Sequence for Command FIFO Debugging Register
1.
- During debug, if Software wants to read the content of channels it can use the Command
FIFO debugging register.
- When CMDFIFO_PEEK_ENA is asserted, the command FIFO reads the data that is stored at
address CMDFIFO_PEEK_ADDR. The read data is available in CMDFIFO_PEEK_DATA. This gives visibility into all locations of the RAM.
- During this time channel related requests to read from the command FIFO RAM are blocked,
effectively freezes the contents of whatever is stored in the command FIFO RAM on the read side. The write side logic (PIO or CDMA) is still allowed to add data to the command FIFO (until, per channel, the FIFO is full.) If this is undesired, one could first issue a DMASTOP for all CDMA channels. The command FIFOs are implemented with chasing read/write pointers. Since
- CMDFIFO_PEEK_ADDR is directly connected to the RAM address input, the address value will
not necessarily correspond to the top of a FIFO.
- The values of read and write pointers into a command FIFO can be found in the
- CMDFIFO_PEEK_PTRS register. The CMDFIFO_PEEK_CHANNR field selects the channels for
the pointers are shown. The begin and end addresses of a command FIFO can be found in the CMDFIFOx_BASE and CMDFIFOx_LIMIT registers.
- This sequence should not be applied to normal running channel otherwise it will cause
corruption in that channel. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
##### 7.1.3.12.5 Programming Sequence for Power Up/Down Sequence for Host
- Controller Clients
Power Down sequence of Host Controller clients: 1.
- Software asserts the power down request for a corresponding power domain in PMC
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE + PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0=1

- Host Controller
2.
- Software polls the corresponding power down ack bit in PMC NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE
+ PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0=1 Software initiates the power down sequence for Host Controller client. 3. Power Up of Host Controller clients: 1.
- Software de-asserts the power down request for a given power domain in PMC
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE + PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0=0
- Software polls the corresponding power down ack bit in PMC NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE
+ PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0=0 Software initiates the power up sequence for Host Controller client. Host Controller uses power domain clamps as resets for power domains within a voltage rail. Software de-asserts resets. 2. 3. 4. 5.
##### 7.1.3.12.6 Hypervisor Programming Guideline for Client StreamID (Falcon-based
clients)
- For Falcon-based client, Hypervisor Software must program
the <Engine>STRMID_0_OFFSET_BASE/LIMIT register in host controller to streamID1 offset only (used by Falcon to fetch ucode). This ensures the compromised RMServer does not overwrite streamID0 in client via MMIO path.
- Hypervisor Software must program <Engine>_CHANNEL_STRMID_0_OFFSET_BASE/LIMIT register
in host controller to streamID0 offset only (used by client engine other than falcon to fetch data). This ensures the compromised OS does not skip updating the streamID0 and use streamID0 set by previous OS.
##### 7.1.3.12.7 Programming Guideline for SetClass(Thost) Command
Here are the programming guidelines for SetClass in case of Thost client: SetClass(Thost) as a first command:
- In case of SetClass(Thost) as first command in a channel, Software must follow the
- AcquireMlock(Thost)-SetClass(Thost)-SetStreamID(Thost)…. ReleaseMlock(Thost) sequence
similar to other clients.
- Here AcquireMlock(Thost), SetStreamID(Thost) and ReleaseMlock(Thost) is treated as NOP
by Hardware
- Hardware will be doing virtualition checks for SetStreamID(Thost) command so Software has
to program THOST_CHANNNEL_STRMID_0_OFFSET_BASE/LIMIT registers to non-zero values.
- For the SetStreamID(Thost) command, Software has to choose the correct streamID value
based on streamID-VM table. SetClass(Thost) as middle command:

- Host Controller Registers
- For AcquireMlock(Engine)-SetClass(Engine)-SetStreamID(Engine)…. SetClass(Thost)…
ReleaseMlock(Engine) cases there is no restriction on SetClass(Thost) command.}(@{Key=7.1.3; Title=Programming Guidelines; Body=#### 7.1.3.1 Channel Programming Model
- The Host Controller programming models reside on top of the concept of channels. A channel
provides the means for software to supply an ordered sequence of commands to one or more classes. There are no restrictions on how many classes a channel may own or how often it can switch between classes, but it can only operate on one class at a time (known as the working class) and one command at a time. A stalled channel does not allow any commands to proceed from any class – there is a strict ordering of commands. A channel starts processing commands when commands are present, either supplied by the CPU (PIO mode) or gathered from memory. A channel can be stopped explicitly by a CPU write to channel state. Normally, software does static allocation of a channel to one engine only as shown below.

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.2 Single Channel Example**
##### 7.1.3.1.1 Concurrency
Channels operate in parallel and are unhindered by one another except in two specific cases:
- Synchronization points
- Class contention
The following figure depicts such concurrency.

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.3 Channel Concurrency Example**
In the example above, no channel is blocked by another at any time so both can work concurrently. Care must be taken when assigning clients to channels. Channel concurrency as well as channel throughput is crucial for performance. For example, a client that is event-driven with a low latency requirement should exist in its own channel. Conversely, two clients that must be steadily supplied with commands could possibly coexist in the same channel given that their synchronization points are not conflicting (if they have any real synchronization points at all). Clients that operate sequentially on the same piece of data can easily reside in the same channel.

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.1.2 Synchronization
There are 704 total synchronization points (Syncpts). Similar to semaphores, Syncpt methods are issued to clients, mentioning Syncpt counter index and returning condition. Any channel can be made to wait on a Syncpt value of a particular Syncpt index through Host Controller "wait" method. Once the Syncpt method is received by clients, based on Syncpt condition, they return a Syncpt index back to the Host Controller. On receiving a Syncpt index from the client, The Host Controller increments that particular Syncpt counter. The following simple example shows how Syncpts and waits allow for synchronization. The arrows indicate channel dependencies (which channel is waiting for a Syncpt increment from another channel).

- Host Controller
**Figure 7.4 Channel Synchronization Example**

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.1.3 Channel Registers
Channel registers are broken into two functional groups: one grouping is associated with the command FIFO and command delivery to clients; the other grouping is associated with register and memory access.
##### 7.1.3.1.4 Channel Commands
Channel commands can be split into two categories:
- Class commands
A class command is a mechanism to communicate a class write to a client. The channel must have an active class when processing class commands. The active class is set by a SETCL (SetClass) command.
- DMA commands
- DMA commands control what is being fetched. They are processed at the top of the
command FIFO while class commands are processed at the bottom of the command FIFO.
- This is because DMA commands change the command stream and must be processed before
entering the FIFO. Offsets in class commands are relative to the active class' base as they are limited to only the methods in the active class.
- SETCL (SetClass, opcode 0x0)
A channel command that takes a class ID as an argument. SetClass is the sole means to indicate the current ownership of the channel. It also means that a channel can acquire ownership of a class. Subsequent channel commands are directed towards this class. SetClass does not mean implicit acquisition of a module's ownership. It is possible to send commands simultaneously from more than one channel to the same module. When exclusive ownership of a module is required for software correctness, then ACQUIRE_MLOCK and
- RELEASE_MLOCK opcodes should be used to acquire and release the MLOCKn semaphore
bits. An ACQUIRE_MLOCK that fails causes that channel's commands to stall until it wins subsequent MLOCK arbitration (arbitrations happen with each RELEASE_MLOCK). In summary:
- SetClass instructs the channel hardware which module and context to use for the following
commands.
- If multiple channels write simultaneously to the same or different class IDs in the same
hardware module (and no MLOCKs are used), then the actual commands are interleaved with a granularity of one command per channel.
- The SetClass behavior also supports virtualization use cases. See SETCL (SetClass, opcode
0x0, in the Virtualization section.)
- HCFINCR (Increment, opcode 0x1)
- Takes an offset and count as arguments. There are <count[15:0]> data following this

- Host Controller
command to be written starting at the specified offset. The offset is incremented after each write.
- HCFNONINCR (Non-Increment, opcode 0x2)
- Takes an offset and count as arguments. There are <count[15:0]> data following this class
command to be written to the specified offset. Non-increment indicates that the offset is not to be incremented per data write.
- MASK (Mask, opcode 0x3)
- Takes an offset and count as arguments. The number of data to write after the command is
equal to the number of set bits in the count. Each data is written to the specified offset plus the next active bit location. For example, a count equal to 0x5 would have two data that are written to (offset+0) and (offset+2).
- IMM (Immediate, opcode 0x4)
Takes an offset and 16-bit data as arguments. The 16-bit data is written to the offset.
- EXTEND (opcode 0xe)
- The EXTEND opcode includes ACQUIRE_MLOCK and RELEASE_MLOCK opcodes. See the
Virtualization section for more details.
- ACQUIRE_MLOCK uses MLOCK registers, which are allocated by software. MLOCK (Module
- LOCK) bits are visible to all channels. ACQUIRE_MLOCK sets MLOCK<indx> to 1. However,
when MLOCK<indx> is already 1, the channel stalls until the MLOCK arbiter grants the lock to that channel. A channel's priority can be set using the
- HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_CH_HIPRI_0 register. The ACQUIRE_MLOCK command is a
privilege command.
- RELEASE_MLOCK clears the MLOCK<indx> bit when it is locked by the same channels
(otherwise it is ignored). Thus, when one or more channels are waiting, the MLOCK arbiter picks a channel and allows that channel's ACQUIRE_MLOCK to complete. For virtualization use cases, the RELEASE_MLOCK command is a privilege command.
- SETPYLD (opcode 0x9, <Data[15:0]>)
This command sets the internal 16-bit count register per channel to set the payload value to be used by the proceeding SETSTRMID/HCFINCR_W, HCFNONINCR_W commands.
- HCFINCR_W (opcode 0xa)
- This command is similar to HCFINCR command except that it uses a 22-bit offset value. The
count value comes from an internal payload register which was set through a previous SETPYLD command.
- HCFNONINCR_W (opcode 0xb)
- This is similar to the HCFNONINCR command except that it uses a 22-bit offset value. The
count value comes from an internal payload register which was set through a previous SETPYLD command.
##### 7.1.3.1.5 Channel Command FIFO
- The command FIFO is loaded either the CDMA or via PIO access. PIO is mainly used for debug
purposes, but it allows a Host Controller master to fill the command FIFO with channel commands

- Host Controller
by writing into the per channel CMDFIFO_PIOWR_0 register. PIO Command FIFO accesses should not be issued while a Gather process is busy. A command FIFO has a set of registers that point to a location in memory where a sequence of channel commands resides. This sequence of commands is generally referred to as a Push-buffer. A Host Controller master can write either to DMAPUT or DMASTART register to trigger command fetching by the CDMA. DMASTART indicates where to start fetching, and DMAPUT indicates where to stop. DMAGET is a read-only reference to the present location of the command FIFO; it is incremented when the command is popped from the command FIFO. DMAPUT and DMAGET are relative addresses to DMASTART.
- DMAEND provides an upper boundary to prevent the CDMA from fetching illegal addresses;
fetching ceases when DMAGET equals DMAEND. The command FIFO can be halted by writing the DMASTOP field in the DMACTRL register. DMACTRL also provides a mechanism to reset the DMAGET pointer (DMAGETRST field) to either 0 or to the value of DMAPUT (DMAINITGET field).
##### 7.1.3.1.6 Channel Control
Channel status and control resides in the synchronous register space of the Host Controller address map. These registers are aliased in each channel's space. The details of these registers are as below:
- CH<0..8>_STATUS
Status includes client ownership and whether the channel is blocked or not.
- CH_TEARDOWN
Using this register each channel can be reset, which is referred to as a teardown. This means all channel states are cleared and all client and class ownerships are relinquished.
- MOD_TEARDOWN
Similar to channel teardown, there exists a mechanism to reset modules. Setting this register in the Host Controller can clear all states associated with a given client/module. <client>_STATUS This register indicates the client's currently active class.
#### 7.1.3.2 Priority between Channels
The current MLOCK arbiter uses two round-robin rings, high and low priority. A high priority acquire request is always granted before a low priority request.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.3 ACQUIRE_MLOCK
- The ACQUIRE_ML OCK opcode replaces the implicit locking of modules previously done by
HCFSSETCL. This is done using MLOCK registers, which is allocated by software. MLOCK (Module LOCK) bits are visible to all channels. ACQUIRE_MLOCK sets MLOCK [indx] to 1, but if MLOCK[indx] is already 1, then the channel stalls until the mlock arbiter grants the lock to that channel. The MLOCK arbiter uses two round-robin rings with high and low priority. A high-priority acquire request is always granted before a low-priority request. A channel's priority can be set using the HOST1X_SYNC_CH_PRIORITY_0 field.
#### 7.1.3.4 Syncpt Protection
The Host Controller hardware provides inter OS Syncpt protection to support virtualization use cases and for single OS use cases. it adds inter-channel and inter-application Syncpt protection.
##### 7.1.3.4.1 Inter OS Syncpt Protection
- The Host Controller creates a Syncpt-VMID table under the central RM (VMID0) range through
which the central RM allocates Syncpts to various Guest OSs.
- Table 7.5 Syncpt-VMID Mapping Table
- Syncpt Number
- VMID[3:0]
- VMID Reset Value
<vmID1> <Undefined> … … <Undefined> <vmIDN-1> <Undefined> For each HWR transaction to clients the Host Controller sends VMID[3:0] field associated with that Guest OS as part of the 10-bit channel ID(VMID[3:0],ChID[5:0]) field. Clients are supposed to return this 10-bit channel ID field along with the Syncpt response packet.
- Based on the VMID of the incoming Syncpt response packet (indicated through VNID[9:6] of
channel ID[9:0] field) and stored VMID for corresponding Syncpt index, the Host Controller allows or denies Syncpt increment requests. When it is an illegal request, the Host Controller also raises an illegalAccess error to the central RM.
- For MMIO-based programming models, only Inter-OS checks are performed. Channel and appID
checks are ignored in that case assuming the partition RM holding that MMIO range has already completed the check.

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.4.2 Intra OS Syncpt Protection
Within a single OS, the Host Controller adds Syncpt protection between channels associated with that channel and different applications sharing the same channel in that OS. The Host Controller creates a Syncpt-ChAppID mapping table in each Guest OS range so that each OS can assign its own pool of channels to various channels and various applications within that OS.
- Table 7.6 Syncpt-ChAppID Mapping Table [All MMIO ranges]
- Syncpt Number
- Application ID[7:0]
- ChID[5:0]
<appID0> <chID0> … … … <appIDn-1> <chIDn-1> AppID is 8-bit wide to support the maximum 256 applications per channel. For the MMIO-based programming model, the channel ID is 0x3F to indicate MMIO channel. For each hardware transaction to clients, the Host Controller sends the vector in ChID[5:0] associated with the channel number or MMIO range of the Guest OS together as the channel ID[9:0] field (= {VMID[3:0],ChID[5:0]}). On the response packets, the clients return this channel ID[9:0] field and based on the ChID of the incoming Syncpt response packet and stored ChID for the corresponding Syncpt index the Host Controller allows or denies Syncpt increment request. When an illegal request occurs, the Host Controller also raise an illegalAccess error to the central RM. An additional status register indicates this Inter-channel illegal access. Note that hardware does not support APPID protection for THOST class. Either software need to prevent THOST class from GB or only one application should be used per channel in a given time so that APPID protection is not required.
##### 7.1.3.4.3 Client Changes to Support Channel ID
The Syncpt interfacing logic of clients stores the incoming channel ID [9:0] field along with Syncpt request packets per Syncpt. For continuous Syncpt registers, the clients store the channel field which is a part of the MMIO write command. Once the Syncpt setup condition is true, the clients return the corresponding stored channel value along with the Syncpt response packet over the HRD interface.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.5 DMA Commands
- RESTART (Restart or Jump, opcode 0x5)
- This command specifies an offset relative to DMASTART. The next command to be fetched is
from (DMASTART + offset). The jump address granularity is 16 bytes because the lower 4 bits are always zeroes.
- RESTART_W (Restart or Jump, opcode 0xd)
This command is similar to the legacy RESTART command with the following differences:
- It consists of two words, (Lower 28 bits, Upper 10 bits)
The jump address granularity is 4 bytes because the lower 2 bits are always zeroes.
- GATHER (opcode 0x6)
- This command comprises of two words and has arguments: <offset, insert, type, count> and
<address>. When GATHER is processed, <count> data is fetched from the address and inserted into the command stream. When the <insert> argument is enabled, it inserts either an HCFINCR or HCFNONINCR opcode preceding the fetched data, which is specified by <type>. DMA commands do not need an active class, but often are processed when an active class exists. In the case of the GATHER command, when <insert> is enabled, there must be an active class.
- Gather_0
31:28
- OPCODE
- GATHER = 0x6
27:16
- OFFSET
- Starting offset (if inserting opcode into the stream)
- INSERT
- Insert an opcode (type set by TYPE, initial offset set by
- OFFSET), immediately before the gathered data stream
- Type
- Type of opcode to be inserted (incrementing or non-
incrementing). Only valid if INSERT is enabled. 0: HCFNONINCR 1: HCFINCR 13:0
- Count
- Count of 32-bit words to be gathered from memory
- Gather_1
31:2
- Address
- Base address of memory
- While sending the address to memory, the Host Controller sets the upper 8-bit address to 0
to support 40-bit addressing.
- GATHER_W (opcode 0xc)
- This gather command provides 40-bit address support. It is similar to the legacy GATHER
command but with wide address support and without the insert feature. The gather stream can have self-contained commands only. This command comprises three words with the following arguments: Count, Lower 32-bit address, Upper 32-bit address.
- Gather_W_0
31:28
- OPCODE
- GATHER_H = 0xc

- Host Controller
15:0
- Count
- Count of 32-bit words to be gathered from memory
- Gather_W_1
31:2
- Addr_Low
- Lower 32-bit base address
- Gather_W_2
7:0
- Addr_High
- Upper 8-bit base address
- When GATHER_W is processed, <Count> data is fetched from MC base address (Addr_High,
Addr_Low) and inserted into the command stream.
##### 7.1.3.5.1 Command DMA (CDMA) Registers
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMASTART_0 (n is the channel number.)
This register holds the start address of memory location for fetching DMA for the channel as indicated.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMASTART_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMASTART memory address to support 40-bit MC
addressing for the channel as indicated.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAPUT_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register triggers a DMA fetch from memory for the channel as specified, when the PUT
register does not equal the GET register. This address is relative to the DMASTART base address. It does not support byte writes. All 4-byte data needs to be programmed.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAPUT_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMAPUT memory address for the channel as
indicated.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAGET_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register tracks the MC offset, which the DMA engine has read. It gets incremented as
entries are loaded from the channels command buffer into the FIFO. This address is relative to the DMASTART base address for the channel as specified..
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAGET_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMAGET memory address.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAEND_0 (n is the channel number.)
This is the boundary of illegal addresses (at the end of either the push buffer or physical memory) and is an offset relative to the DMASTART address for the channel as specified.
- This is designed to prevent DMA from prefetching illegal addresses. When DMA reaches this
address before seeing a RESTART, it stops. This would be a software error condition.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMAEND_HI_0 (n is the channel number.)
- This register holds the upper 8 bits of the DMAEND memory address for the channel as
specified.
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_DMACTRL_0 (n is the channel number.)
The various fields of DMA control register for the channel as specified are described below:

- Host Controller
- DMAGETRST
- Reset GET pointer to 0. Useful for cleaning up a crashed channel. DMAGET value is not
updated instantly. It takes four cycles between programming of reset and valid DMAGET.
- DMAGETINIT
Reset GET pointer to the value of DMAPUT when the DMAGETRST field is asserted.
- DMASTOP
Stop DMA from fetching on the channel. A Command DMA channel needs to be enabled for PIO-gather to work.
##### 7.1.3.5.2 Access Registers
- HOST1X_THOST_CHANNEL_CHn_FIFOSTAT_0 (n is the channel number.)
- CFNUMEMPTY is the number of free slots available in the per-channel command FIFO
(needed for PIO or polling for completion of a wait).
#### 7.1.3.6 Progress Status
Channel progress is monitored through two means – GET and Syncpts. GET is a channel state that indicates the address of the last command that has been fetched from memory and sent to the channel. GET is the same as DMAGET. Syncpts are counter registers that are incremented when specified events occur (e.g., after the completion of each operation done by a module). The 32-bit Syncpt values typically are monotonically increasing and can be used for in-channel waits and to indicate channel completion status. The GET and Syncpt registers can also be read directly (out-of- band) by the CPU.
#### 7.1.3.7 Programming Model for MMIO-Based Clients (Single MMIO
- Range)
The client MMIO range is statically assigned to only a single Guest OS other than the central RM(VMID0).
- That particular Guest OS maintains all SMMU contexts in clients. Basically, all StreamID
registers of clients.
- The Host Controller hardware needs to protect the StreamID update from this Guest OS
(through MMIO path) and not conflict with other Guest OSs (Inter-OS StreamID protection) Similarly for Syncpts, the Host Controller hardware only does Inter-OS protection. The Intra-OS protection for StreamID and Syncpt is the responsibility of the Guest OS only, which owns that particular MMIO range. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.8 Programming Model for MMIO-Based Clients (Multiple MMIO
- Range)
- The client has dedicated MMIO ranges for each Guest OS, and each MMIO range is statically
assigned to only a single Guest OS other than the central RM (VMID0). That particular Guest OS maintains the SMMU contexts within its range in the client.
- Host Controller hardware needs to ensure that the StreamID update from this Guest OS
(through the MMIO path) does not conflict with other Guest OS (Inter-OS StreamID protection). Similarly for Syncpt, the Host Controller hardware does Inter-OS protection only.
- The Intra-OS protection for StreamID and Syncpt is the responsibility of the Guest OS that
owns that particular MMIO range. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
##### 7.1.3.8.1 Basics of Syncpt-Based Programming Model
The basic programming model that software follows is: Each module should be programmed to do a unit of work (an operation) by the Host Controller using CDMA and Push Buffers (PBs). Examples of an operation include:
- BLT (VIC)
- Draw a set of triangles (GPU)
- Encode a single frame (NVENC)
When nothing else is programmed, module goes idle until the Host Controller sends commands to start another operation (no continuous mode). To do its operation, a module reads data from memory and writes the results to memory. Modules interact with each other using memory buffers: one module is the producer of data, and another is the consumer of that data.
##### 7.1.3.8.2 Basic Synchronization
- There are two basic needs for synchronization: management of memory buffers and timing of
control register writes. Memory buffers used to pass data from one module to the next use a producer/consumer model with circular buffers. To prevent buffer underflow and overflow, synchronization needs to be done in both directions:
- The consumer cannot read until the producer is done writing (and the writes are committed
to memory). The producer cannot reuse an output buffer (i.e., write to buffer) until the consumer is done reading the buffer. Thus, the synchronization events required for memory buffers are:

- Host Controller
The module has completed all reads from the buffer.
- The module has completed all writes to the buffer (and they are committed by the memory
controller). To understand the requirements for timing the writes to control registers, a typical sequence is provided below: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. reg wr for operation A reg wr for operation A reg wr (trigger) for operation A reg wr for operation B reg wr for operation B reg wr (trigger) for operation B When no WAIT method is placed between the trigger for A and the first register write for B, then in the worst case, corruption of operation A may occur because the new value of the control register is used before operation A is done. For modules that protect against this corruption, there is still the undesirable behavior of the module delaying the register write and subsequently causing back pressure on the Host Controller's write bus. For direct register reads by ISRs occurring asynchronously with respect to the channel command writes, it must be ensured that the Host Controller bus does not stall for significant periods of time. To synchronize writes to a control register, a safe time to start writing the register for the next operation is when: No corruption occurs for previous operations. No stalls of the HWRBUS bus.
##### 7.1.3.8.3 Standard Set of Incr_Syncpt Conditions
The following values of the "incr_syncpt cond" field are predefined: 0 (Immediate): Return indx to Host Controller immediately (used by software push-buffer allocation and helpful for debug). 1 (Op_Done): Return indx to Host Controller when all previously triggered operations have completed and their writes to memory are committed. 2 (Rd_Done): Return indx to Host Controller when all previously triggered operations have completed their reads from memory. 3 (Reg_Wr_Safe): Return indx to Host Controller when it is safe to program registers for the next operation. Safe means no corruption to previous operations, and no stalling of Host Controller write bus should occur. 4 (Engine_Idle): The engine returns Syncpt index to Host Controller only when all previously queued operations to an engine are completed including commitment of their memory writes. There are special cases which require the use of additional condition values. Some modules have multiple read buffers, thus requiring (condition == 2) that indicates all reads to all buffers

- Host Controller
complete. It is useful for software to know when reads are done to a specific input buffer. For some modules, e.g., VI, there are different safe times to update different sets of registers, so (condition == 3) needs several variations (one for each "safe time"). If a module can have two operations happening at one time (as in VI), then special considerations needs to be made for these cases: either two separate Incr_Syncpt methods or one Incr_Syncpt method with many special conditions. For some modules, one condition can replace another if the two conditions always happen within a short period of time of each other. Then the condition that always happens last can be used for both.
##### 7.1.3.8.4 Continuous Mode — Display
For each display, software wants a free-running Syncpt increment on every display "Vsync". The most appropriate implementation of this is to have an additional register which has "Enable" and "Indx" fields to control the increment of Syncpt on every Vsync event. If enable is set, then on every Vsync display would return this "Indx" back to the Host Controller. Host Controller clients implements the logic associated with these registers. When this continuous mode is enabled, the client should set a pending bit for when the condition occurs. When the pending bit is set, the client arbitrates for the hrd_<client>2host1x bus and when selected sends "Indx" tagged with "Syncpt type" on the hrd_ bus. After successfully sending the Indx on the HRD bus, the client clears the pending bit. For the continuous syncpt case, the client has to implement logic to return the TrustZone flag and "channel" fields back to Host Controller along with syncpt response which were received earlier as part of the continuous syncpt update request. See the Host Clients section for a list of the Host Controller clients.
##### 7.1.3.8.5 Allowing Multiple Pending INCR_SYNCPTs
Clients can have multiple pending Syncpts which are queued into the client's Syncpt FIFOs, which are dedicated ones for each Syncpt condition. The behavior of these Syncpt FIFOs is controlled by an "INCR_SYNCPT_CNTRL" register in the client's register space:
##### 7.1.3.8.6 Syncpt Protection
The Host Controller supports the following types of protection mechanisms for Syncpts:
- Syncpt Protection Between Multiple Guest OS
- To support virtualization use cases, the Host Controller protects Syncpts between Guest
- OS. Host Controller hardware creates a Syncpt-VMID Mapping table to store Syncpt
allocation which is statically done by the central RM (VMID0) between Guest OSs. Based on this table, Host Controller allows or denies Syncpt increment initiated from an OS.
- Within a Single Guest OS Syncpt Protection Between Multiple Channels

- Host Controller
- Each Guest OS allocates Syncpts from its assigned pool of Syncpts to various channels
through a Syncpt-VMID Mapping table. Based on this table, the Host Controller protects increments of Syncpts from another channel within that Guest OS.
- Within a Single Channel of a Single Guest OS Syncpt Protection Between Multiple
- Applications
- The Host Controller protects increments of Syncpt by various applications which are
sharing the same channel in a Guest OS. This is done through a Syncpt-VMID Mapping table, where each Guest OS assigns Syncpts to various applications sharing same channel.
- There is also a hardware register per channel and per MMIO range to store the current
AppID using that channel or MMIO range.
- Based on this hardware register and Syncpt Mapping Table, the Host Controller does
- Syncpt protection between various apps sharing the same channel within a Guest OS as
shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 7.5 Syncpt Protection**

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.8.7 Virtualization Methodology
The Host Controller supports virtualization with dedicated hardware resources (channels and Syncpts) with arbitration through partitioned RM (inside Guest OS) based privilege commands. The basic assumption here is that each partition RM can be trusted to send kernel specific commands for channel switching. Also, each submit from Guest OS contains commands for only one frame so that switching latency cannot be more than one frame. The Host Controller implements dedicated 63 channels and 1024 Syncpts as required by software to support eight Guest OSs with no change in behavior of channel functionality. Channels and Syncpts are allocated to each Guest OS by Hypervisor and hardware protects it from interference from other Guest OSs.
- Mapping of channels and Syncpts to a Guest OS can be done in an asymmetric manner so that
based on configuration, the Hypervisor can change allocation of Syncpt and channels. Host Controller supports an 7-bit StreamID register for storing SMMU context. This StreamID configuration in the client is done by the partition RM inside each Guest OS. This partition RM can select StreamID from a list assigned to it by the hypervisor. The hypervisor also configures the list of StreamID per Guest OS inside the Host Controller, and the Host Controller checks the incoming StreamID config value from each Guest from this list and that is allowed to go to client only if it matches this list. A Guest OS uses the SETSTRMID privilege command to set the SMMU context for an engine class from its allocated StreamID list. Within a single Guest OS it is the responsibility of partitioned RM (inside Guest OS) to make sure that StreamID values do not overlap between multiple threads. The push-buffer fetch from each channel uses distinct SMMU context, configured through the 7- bit StreamID configuration register per channel, which is programmed by the partition RM of the Guest OS while hardware ensures that it does not interfere with other StreamIDs. The arbitration of an engine between groups of channels is done through partitioned RM based privilege commands inserted at each submit boundary. These are ML OCK_ACQUIRE/RELEASE commands that are privilege and compulsory used to pin an engine to channel unless it is released through MLOCK_RELEASE command from the same channel. So, a channel not inserting ACQUIRE_MLOCK prior to SetClass is not allowed to use that class. Because channel switching happens at the submit boundary only, no engine context switching is required. Partitioned RM inserts proper SMMU context–switching commands at each submit boundary to ensure proper context. To prevent corruption from UMD, the Host Controller hardware filters out privilege commands (SetClass, Acquire(Release) MLOCK, and SetStrmID) from the Gather Buffer.

- Host Controller
#### 7.1.3.9 Host Controller Class
- The Host Controller has its own class that can be executed from the command FIFO. It is
comprised of methods to access client registers as well as methods to control channel flow.
##### 7.1.3.9.1 INCR_SYNCPT
All Host Controller modules, including the Host Controller itself, implement the Incr_Syncpt class.
- Incr_Syncpt.Cond ([17:10])
- Incr_Syncpt.Indx ([9:0])
For the Host Controller, this method immediately increments Syncpt<Indx> irrespective of the condition. The Indx field supports 704 Syncpts.
##### 7.1.3.9.2 WAIT_SYNCPT (Wait on Syncpt)
The command dispatches stalls until the Syncpt counter pointed to by the Indx field reaches the threshold value specified in the Thresh field:
- Wait_Syncpt.Indx ([31:24])
- Wair_Syncpt.Thresh ([23:0])
The channel waits until the following is true: (Syncpt<Indx>[15:0] >= Thresh[15:0]), where the ">=" takes wrapping into account. More specifically, the channel waits until: (((Syncpt<Indx> – thresh) & (1 << 15)) != 0) Note: To ensure backward compatibility, only a maximum of 256 Syncpts can be accessed.
##### 7.1.3.9.3 WAIT_SYNCPT_INCR<indx> (Waits until Syncpt increments)
The channel stalls until Syncpt<Indx> is incremented. This wait method is not recommended.
##### 7.1.3.9.4 LOAD_SYNCPT_PAYLOAD_32 ([31:0])
- This method loads a 32-bit value into the corresponding channel's Channel_Syncpt_Payload
register: (Channel_Syncpt_Payload[31:0 ] = Payload[31:0] )

- Host Controller
##### 7.1.3.9.5 WAIT_SYNCPT_32 <Indx(10)>
This method stalls the current channel until following condition is true: ((SYNCPT<indx>[31:0] - PAYLOAD[31:0]) & 0x80000000 == 0) Here the Payload value is taken from Channel_Syncpt_Payload of the current channel. This is essentially a wrapping stall until (SYNCPT<indx>[31:0] >= PAYLOAD[31:0]). The index <indx> supports 704 Syncpts.
#### 7.1.3.10 Class-based Programming
The Host Controller supports a programming interface that is based on writing to offsets within a "class" that implements a function, rather than to specific register offsets and formats. By using the class interface, register offsets/formats need not remain fixed so there are no chip specifics in the API. This allows both hardware flexibility and software driver compatibility between SoC generations.
#### 7.1.3.11 Context Switching
- Context management of modules included by the Host Controller is completely under software
control. When context switching is needed (software knows this), it issues context switching routine to save the current context readying for the switch to the new context.
##### 7.1.3.11.1 Example Software Sequence for StreamID Switch
- Channel-based Programming Mode
Consider two different apps (Gaming and Banking), running in a sequential manner in a single OS, which are going to share the same channel and same engine (VIC). Here software should be using EngineIdle Syncpt to ensure engine context is clean before switching to new SMMU context. The Push Buffer (PB) sequences are shown as follows: A) Gaming App(GuestOs0) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
- Acquire Mlock
- SetClass(VIC)
- SetStrmID(global SMMU ID)
- Setup Syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(host1x)
- Wait for syncpt (EngineIdle) -> To ensure engine is completely idle before SMMU context
switch
- SetClass(VIC)
7.

- Host Controller
8. 9.
- SetStrmID(gaming SMMU context)
- Gather(gaming app)
- Setup syncpt(EngineIdle)
- Setclass(host1x)
wait for syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(VIC)
- SetStrmID(invalid smmu context)
- Release Mlock
10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. B) Banking App(GuestOs1) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
- Acquire Mlock
- SetClass(vic)
- SetStrmID(global smmu ID)
- Setup Syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass (host1x)
- Wait for syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(vic)
- SetStrmID(banking smmu context)
- Gather(banking app)
- Setup syncpt(EngineIdle)
- Setclass (host1x)
- Wait for syncpt (EngineIdle)
- SetClass(vic)
- SetSteamID(invalid smmu context)
- Release Mlock
10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15.
- MMIO-based Programming Mode
For MMIO-based programming clients, specific sequences SMMU context update is used. StreamID changes are synchronized with window updates by software to use the display buffer flip mechanism for StreamID update synchronization without the EngineIdle Syncpt.
#### 7.1.3.12 Specific Programming Guidelines
This secti on provides the programming guidelines for certain use cases:
- For Virtualization during Initialization time, the Hypervisor should program all shareable
resources (channel/Syncpt/clients) through configuration registers and table. Enable Syncpt protection (SYNCPT_PROT_EN register) by Hypervisor.
- For some use cases, VMID1 (Guest OS0), which is default OS, should be used to access
shareable resources.

- Host Controller
- For MMIO based programming model, the Hypervisor software has to make sure
programming of MMIO Range-VMID table before accessing that client.
- For those clients that use multiple channels per single OS, the Hypervisor should disable
MLOCK checks.
- Central RM should enable filtering of kernel commands as mentioned in the Filtering Out
Kernel Commands from the Gather Buffer section above.
##### 7.1.3.12.1 Programming Sequence for Functional Syncpt Interrupts
Functional Syncpt interrupts are threshold interrupts that are triggered when a Syncpt reaches a pre-programmed value. The targets for these interrupts are CPU0/1, CPU2/3 (camera processor),
- TrustZone CPU (if the Syncpt is TrustZone secure), VM 1-8 (Each VM has an eight dedicated
interrupt line). This section elaborates on register update sequence during setting and clearing of this interrupt. 1. Threshold value is programmed in the SYNC_INTR_THRESH[i] register in the sync aperture. This value is compared to the Syncpt register.
- For Syncpt interrupt per VM, Software also programs per Syncpt interrupt destination
register HOST1X_THOST_COMMON_VM1_SYNCPT_INTR_DEST_VM_[0..1023] register to select interrupt line per VM to use for a particular Syncpt. If the threshold has been reached, threshold mask registers for all the targets are checked [SYNCPT_THRESH_INTRMASK_CPU0/CPU1/CPU2/CPU3/VMxx]. In case the Syncpt is marked TrustZoneSYNCPT_THRESH_INTRMASK_CPU[i] is checked.
- SYNCPT_THRESH_INTRSTATUS_xx[i] register is updated based on mask settings and
threshold condition. (xx can mean any target CPU0/1/2/3, TrustZoneCPU, VMxx)
- Based on the target, the appropriate field in the INTRSTATUS_0 register is updated and the
interrupt is sent to the target.
- Once the interrupt is logged, the appropriate bit in the SYNCPT_THRESH_INTRSTATUS_xx[i]
should be cleared. A Guest OS can also set the Syncpt interrupt on Syncpt which are associated with other Guest OS using HOST1X_THOST_SYNCPT_SYNCPT_INTR_THRESH_0[0..1023][0..7] register. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
##### 7.1.3.12.2 Programming Sequence for Channel Teardown
1.
- While the channel is in active state, the channel DMA is de-activated by writing to the
DMASTOP bit in the per-channel DMACTRL register.
- The per-channel CMDPROC_STOP register should be written to stop the command
processor. The channel teardown register is written 1 to initiate a teardown. After teardown complete, the cmdfifo_stat register is read to make sure it comes to its reset value and stays there for next few cycles. 2. 3. 4.

- Host Controller
5. 6. Software resets the client to ensure it is idle.
- Before reprogramming the same channel to another Push Buffer, the MOD_TEARDOWN
register is written to clean context of channel.
- CMDPROC is written to reset value(0) so the channel can start again. The channel is
programmed with a new Push Buffer accessing same client. Data checks are done to ensure it behaves correctly with new programmed data. 7. 8.
##### 7.1.3.12.3 Programming Sequence for Client Reset
1.
- Enable clamp for client using the
- HOST1X_THOST_SCR_PROT_COMMON_MOD_CLAMP_EN_SET_0/1 register (via BPMP)
- Reset client
- Disable clamp for client using the
- HOST1X_THOST_SCR_PROT_COMMON_MOD_CLAMP_EN_CLR_0/1 register (via BPMP)
2. 3.
##### 7.1.3.12.4 Programming Sequence for Command FIFO Debugging Register
1.
- During debug, if Software wants to read the content of channels it can use the Command
FIFO debugging register.
- When CMDFIFO_PEEK_ENA is asserted, the command FIFO reads the data that is stored at
address CMDFIFO_PEEK_ADDR. The read data is available in CMDFIFO_PEEK_DATA. This gives visibility into all locations of the RAM.
- During this time channel related requests to read from the command FIFO RAM are blocked,
effectively freezes the contents of whatever is stored in the command FIFO RAM on the read side. The write side logic (PIO or CDMA) is still allowed to add data to the command FIFO (until, per channel, the FIFO is full.) If this is undesired, one could first issue a DMASTOP for all CDMA channels. The command FIFOs are implemented with chasing read/write pointers. Since
- CMDFIFO_PEEK_ADDR is directly connected to the RAM address input, the address value will
not necessarily correspond to the top of a FIFO.
- The values of read and write pointers into a command FIFO can be found in the
- CMDFIFO_PEEK_PTRS register. The CMDFIFO_PEEK_CHANNR field selects the channels for
the pointers are shown. The begin and end addresses of a command FIFO can be found in the CMDFIFOx_BASE and CMDFIFOx_LIMIT registers.
- This sequence should not be applied to normal running channel otherwise it will cause
corruption in that channel. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
##### 7.1.3.12.5 Programming Sequence for Power Up/Down Sequence for Host
- Controller Clients
Power Down sequence of Host Controller clients: 1.
- Software asserts the power down request for a corresponding power domain in PMC
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE + PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0=1

- Host Controller
2.
- Software polls the corresponding power down ack bit in PMC NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE
+ PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0=1 Software initiates the power down sequence for Host Controller client. 3. Power Up of Host Controller clients: 1.
- Software de-asserts the power down request for a given power domain in PMC
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE + PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0=0
- Software polls the corresponding power down ack bit in PMC NV_ADDRESS_MAP_PMC_BASE
+ PMC_IMPL_PART_<>_PWRDWN_ACK_STATUS_0=0 Software initiates the power up sequence for Host Controller client. Host Controller uses power domain clamps as resets for power domains within a voltage rail. Software de-asserts resets. 2. 3. 4. 5.
##### 7.1.3.12.6 Hypervisor Programming Guideline for Client StreamID (Falcon-based
clients)
- For Falcon-based client, Hypervisor Software must program
the <Engine>STRMID_0_OFFSET_BASE/LIMIT register in host controller to streamID1 offset only (used by Falcon to fetch ucode). This ensures the compromised RMServer does not overwrite streamID0 in client via MMIO path.
- Hypervisor Software must program <Engine>_CHANNEL_STRMID_0_OFFSET_BASE/LIMIT register
in host controller to streamID0 offset only (used by client engine other than falcon to fetch data). This ensures the compromised OS does not skip updating the streamID0 and use streamID0 set by previous OS.
##### 7.1.3.12.7 Programming Guideline for SetClass(Thost) Command
Here are the programming guidelines for SetClass in case of Thost client: SetClass(Thost) as a first command:
- In case of SetClass(Thost) as first command in a channel, Software must follow the
- AcquireMlock(Thost)-SetClass(Thost)-SetStreamID(Thost)…. ReleaseMlock(Thost) sequence
similar to other clients.
- Here AcquireMlock(Thost), SetStreamID(Thost) and ReleaseMlock(Thost) is treated as NOP
by Hardware
- Hardware will be doing virtualition checks for SetStreamID(Thost) command so Software has
to program THOST_CHANNNEL_STRMID_0_OFFSET_BASE/LIMIT registers to non-zero values.
- For the SetStreamID(Thost) command, Software has to choose the correct streamID value
based on streamID-VM table. SetClass(Thost) as middle command:

- Host Controller Registers
- For AcquireMlock(Engine)-SetClass(Engine)-SetStreamID(Engine)…. SetClass(Thost)…
ReleaseMlock(Engine) cases there is no restriction on SetClass(Thost) command.}.Body)
