# 7.2.3 Real-Time Camera Engine (RCE)

#### 7.2.3.1 Overview
The Real Time Camera Engine (RCE) is a general-purpose computing subsystem based on an Arm® Cortex® -R5F used to perform all camera capture and sensor programming tasks. The RCE is based on the Safety Cluster Engine (SCE) design. Internally both SCE and RCE are the same, however, some I/O connections are different, and some blocks like Hardware Safety Manager (HSM) are not used. The processing cluster consists of two Cortex-R5F processor cores with a tightly coupled RAM, support peripherals (for example, timers, interrupt controller), and routing logic. For brevity, the Cortex-R5F cores used in RCE are referred to as simply Cortex-R5, but do include the Floating Point and Double-Precision Floating-Point capabilities. In safety applications, the two RCE Cortex-R5 cores operate in lockstep mode and function as a single core with comparison logic to detect any differences between their operations. However, the redundant RCE Cortex-R5 core can be disabled when not required. The RCE does not support operating each Cortex-R5 independently. The RCE cluster is a direct instance of the SCE cluster. All the internal logic and connections within the cluster are the same. Although the diagrams and register names contain SCE, they are applicable to RCE in the same way. The following figure shows the top-level block diagram of the RCE.

- Real-Time Camera Engine (RCE)
**Figure 7.19 High-Level Block Diagram of RCE/SCE**
##### 7.2.3.1.1 HSM
In the RCE, the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM) is functionally disabled, and not used.
##### 7.2.3.1.2 RCE Fabric
The RCE local AMAP remains the same as SCE, but the system view is different from SCE.
##### 7.2.3.1.3 TCM_HI_INIT_ADDR
The TCM_HI_INIT_ADDR value is the same for RCE as it is for SCE. The following are the implications of this: 1. RCE Cortex-R5 AMAP has the RCE's BTCMs in the SCE's BTCM aperture of system AMAP. a.
- For the RCE boot code to run from RCE's BTCM, the CPU should program the RCE ATCM
Reset Vector jump address as the corresponding address in SCE's BTCM.
- The same concept applies for other Exception Vector Pointers (EVP) register configurations
as well. b. 2. If the bootcode is in DRAM, there is no problem. But, there is no restriction that the bootcode must be in DRAM, so the bootcode can very well be in RCE BTCM.

- Real-Time Camera Engine (RCE)
3. Accesses into RCE's BTCM from the AXI-S do not suffer because AXI-S only gets TCM offsets. Base addresses do not come into the picture, implying that external masters can continue using the RCE BTCM aperture as defined in the system AMAP. RCE Cortex-R5 The Cortex-R5 processor supports the following features:
- Armv7-R ISA
- Dual Core Lock-step mechanism
- Integrated Instruction and data caches
- TCM interface for local SRAM
- Vectored interrupt support

