# 7.2.5 Display Control Engine (DCE)

#### 7.2.5.1 Overview
- The Display Control Engine (DCE) is a general-purpose computing subsystem based on an
ARM® Cortex® -R5F used to perform display controller management tasks. The DCE is a duplicate instance of the Safety Cluster Engine (SCE) module; internally both SCE and DCE are the same, however, some I/O connections are different. The processing cluster consists of two Cortex-R5F processor cores with a tightly coupled RAM, support peripherals (for example, timers, interrupt

- Display Control Engine (DCE)
controller), and routing logic. For brevity, the Cortex-R5F cores used in DCE are referred to as simply Cortex-R5, but do include the Floating Point and Double-Precision Floating-Point capabilities. In safety applications, the two DCE Cortex-R5 cores operate in lockstep mode and function as a single core with comparison logic to detect any differences between their operations. However, the redundant DCE Cortex-R5 core can be disabled when not required. The DCE does not support operating each Cortex-R5 independently. The DCE cluster is a direct instance of the SCE cluster. All the internal logic and connections within the cluster are the same. Although the diagrams and register names contain SCE, they are applicable to DCE in the same way. The following figure shows the top-level block diagram of the DCE.
**Figure 7.42 High-Level Block Diagram of DCE/SCE**
- Hardware Safety Manager (HSM)
In the DCE, the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM) is functionally disabled, and not used.
- DCE Fabric
The DCE local AMAP remains the same as SCE, but the system view is different from SCE.
- TCM_HI_INIT_ADDR

- Display Control Engine (DCE)
The TCM_HI_INIT_ADDR value is the same for DCE as it is for SCE. The following are the implications of this: 1. DCE Cortex-R5 AMAP has the DCE's BTCMs in the SCE's BTCM aperture of system AMAP. a.
- For the DCE boot code to run from DCE's BTCM, the CPU should program the DCE ATCM
Reset Vector jump address as the corresponding address in SCE's BTCM. The same concept applies for other EVP register configurations as well. b. 2. If the bootcode is in DRAM, there is no problem. But, there is no restriction that the bootcode must be in DRAM, so the bootcode can very well be in DCE BTCM.
- Accesses into DCE's BTCM from the AXI-S do not suffer because AXI-S only gets TCM
offsets. Base addresses do not come into the picture, implying that external masters can continue using the DCE BTCM aperture as defined in the system AMAP. 3.
##### 7.2.5.1.1 DCE Cortex-R5
The Cortex-R5 processor supports the following features:
- ARMv7-R ISA
- Dual Core Lock-step mechanism
- Integrated Instruction and data caches
- TCM interface for local SRAM
- Vectored interrupt support

