# 7.2.2 Video Input (VI)

#### 7.2.2.1 Overview
The Video Input controller is the sixth generation of this controller, and hence is referred to as VI6, or simply VI. This unit receives data from the CSI (CSI) and routes it to system memory. VI6 is designed to fit a larger number of simultaneous cameras transmitting a larger number of exposures with higher bit depths while supporting additional bandwidth and allowing the system to process it all efficiently. VI6 also introduces some safety enhancements for failure detection and diagnostic. Similar to previous versions, VI6 is designed to be as orthogonal in its configuration as possible. VI6 still uses a single pipeline, which is time-multiplexed into a number of channels; VI6 can choose which channel each pixel packet is associated with, based on a set of packet properties, and then can choose how to process each channel individually. VI6 has tight integration of the hardware with an NVIDIA-designed Falcon real-time microcontroller, and uses Falcon software to offload work that would otherwise require specific programming options for individual features, allowing the capabilities to be expanded.
##### 7.2.2.1.1 Pixel Conveyances
There are many different stages in which pixels are conveyed; the terminology for each of these is specific, and sometimes not obvious. The following terms describe various types of pixel conveyances.

- Video Input (VI)
- Table 7.14 Pixel Conveyance Terms
- Term
- Definition
- Lane
A single 2-wire (D-PHY) or 3-wire (C-PHY) interface used for high-speed serial clock or data transmission over the MIPI CSI link.
- Link
An aggregation of one, two, three (C-PHY only), or four MIPI CSI lanes from a common data source that conveys pixels. Link is sometimes also used to refer to an aggregation of two smaller links (i.e., an x4 link bonded with another x4 link is referred to as an x8 link, even though both smaller links independently follow the MIPI CSI protocol, and convey some pixels on their own).
- Brick
One instantiation of NVCSI; the hardware-managing lanes and links that are used. The D-PHY/C-PHY bricks have four lanes that can individually be configured into an x4 stream, an x2/x2 stream pair, an x2/x1 stream pair, or an x1/x1 stream pair. There are two D-PHY/C-PHY bricks that can use both streams in a pair, and two D-PHY/C-PHY bricks that have only one stream connected.
- Stream
One output interface from an NVCSI brick. There are up to two streams per D-PHY/C-PHY brick. Conveys pixel packets. A stream can also be configured as the aggregation of two smaller streams, through the CSIMUX de-interleaver.
- Pixel
packet The quantum of information flowing through the VI pipeline.
- Atom
The quantum of information flowing out of VI into the memory interface.
- Virtual
channel A four-bit field in the MIPI CSI packet header, for multiple time-multiplexed (line-interleaved) virtual links over one physical link. Each virtual channel has a frame start and frame end bracketing each frame sent. All packets arrive by way of a numbered virtual channel, even if only one virtual channel is in use on the link.
- Data-
type A six-bit field in the MIPI CSI packet header determining what data format is being sent in any given packet. Multiple data-types can be interleaved in a single frame.
- Channel
A virtual pipeline in VI. There are two VI instances and each VI instance supports up to 36 channels.
- Surface
A location in memory and set of resources needed for sending an independent stream of data. VI6 has three surfaces per channel.
##### 7.2.2.1.2 Dynamic Frequency Scaling
VI6 supports Dynamic Frequency Scaling: the VI clock can be changed while VI is processing data traffic, as long as it meets bandwidth requirement for input CSI streams.
##### 7.2.2.1.3 Performance
NVCSI supports up to 4.5 Gsym/s C-PHY link speed, therefore with 16 trios the maximum pixel rate is 10.3 Gpix/s in 16bpp case. Some variants can have two instances of VI to support high input bandwidth requirements.
##### 7.2.2.1.4 Architectural Overview
VI6 receives one packet at a time from an NVCSI source and passes it through a fixed pipeline before dispatching it to memory. The pipeline is channel-multiplexed with each stage maintaining a cache of its required state for each channel. VI6 additionally has a generic notification log

- Video Input (VI)
mechanism, which can log fixed-sized messages to a built-in buffer for the host application to parse at its convenience. A high-level block diagram for VI6 is shown below.
**Figure 7.10 VI6 Top-Level Block Diagram**
Each block of the VI6 top-level block diagram is described: CSI Multiplexer (CSIMUX) - The CSIMUX functions as the frontend to the VI pipeline, serving as a transport between the NVCSI inputs and VI itself. Since VI can only handle a pixel packet from one CSI stream at a time, CSIMUX contains a small buffer for each input to handle peak bandwidth conditions. If a source camera does not provide a frame ID, CSIMUX can emit an auto-incrementing frame ID per virtual channel.
- The external interfaces have the capability of producing a peak of one packet every cycle;
each packet consists of either four or eight pixels. (This is also the internal packet width within VI6.) Each input is synchronized down into the VI clock domain through an asynchronous FIFO, and is prioritized and multiplexed by an arbiter and multiplexer. Channel Selector (CHANSEL) - Since the VI6 pipeline is fixed, each stage is time-multiplexed into channels; every pixel packet is assigned to a set of channels as it flows through the pipe. (A pixel packet can be reasonably assigned to zero channels, if it matches nothing; one channel, if it contains pixel data; or many channels, if it contains an NVCSI FS/FE event.)
- CHANSEL has the task of inspecting each incoming pixel packet and pattern-matching it
against each channel's configuration.

- Video Input (VI)
- CHANSEL is capable of matching based on any combination of physical channel (i.e., which
CSI channel), data-type, virtual channel ID, and frame ID.
- CHANSEL also maintains the per-frame state for each channel and emits notifications to
- NOTIFY for start-of-frame, specific-line-completion, and end-of-frame events. Embedded
data is also routed appropriately in CHANSEL. Pixel Formatter (PIXFMT) - CSI2 provides a very minimal set of pixel formats through the bus interface. VI6's PIXFMT module unpacks the input pixel formats into formats that are advantageous for the host system to read, and formats that ISP can handle natively. (Much of the behavior of the pixel formatter is retained from prior versions of VI.)
- DPCM Encoder - To save memory bandwidth, VI6 provides a compression mechanism for data
traveling between VI and memory. Compression is implemented using a two-pixel differential
- PCM encoding, wrapped in a Huffman code to get bit-rate reduction. The DPCM encoder
stage packs the (odd-width) bitstream into a sequence of bytes and emits whole byte quantities to ATOMP to align into atoms.
- For strip-mode operation, the DPCM encoder needs to periodically insert encoding restart
points; otherwise, the decoder is not capable of recovering enough state to start in the middle of a line. Since this form of compression exists to save memory bandwidth, not memory quantity, restart points are realigned to known boundaries; the result is (in the best case) an extremely sparse memory image.
- DPCM is available for RAW10, RAW12, logarithmic RAW16, RAW20, and run-length-encoded
- RAW12 data; all other formats (or cases in which DPCM is disabled) use a bypass path that
leaves the pixel data unmodified, but kept in lock-step with the DPCM pipeline.
- Memory Atom Packer (ATOMP) - ATOMP is the final stage of the VI6 alignment pipeline; it
takes pixel packets of varying widths and produces memory requests. ATOMP is responsible for packing pixels into appropriate transaction sizes (memory atoms), generating memory addresses, and managing write acknowledgments. When write acknowledgments return for requested end-of-line or end-of-frame events, ATOMP returns them to NOTIFY to be timestamped and output.
- Output Water-level Buffer (OFIF) - Atoms would ordinarily be sent directly to MCCIF for
output to memory, but MCCIF is incapable of providing an early warning that it is running low on buffer capacity. To provide back pressure within the VI6 pipeline, a buffer capable of providing a high-water-level indication is necessary. When the buffer 'water level' reaches a programmable level, notifications are issued to NOTIFY, and ATOMP begins dropping pixel packets from channels programmed to be less critical.
- Notification Engine (NOTIFY) - NOTIFY serves to receive messages from throughout VI6, and
to enqueue them for usage by Falcon. NOTIFY contains FIFOs to buffer events from each source and one master output FIFO to buffer events; these events are later read out from a CPU and dispatched appropriately.
- NOTIFY receives messages from CSI (CSI beginning-of-line and end-of-line messages);
- CHANSEL (start-of-frame, start-of-line, unrecognized channel, frame dropped, incorrect
size); ATOMP (end-of-frame, end of line); OFIF (packet dropped, buffer full); and the VGPIO block (VGPIO state changed). The messages are timestamped using the system timestamp counter upon arrival to allow synchronization to the rest of the system. This timestamp counter is also synchronized with the Falcon microcontroller.

- Video Input (VI)
- Falcon microcontroller - VI6 abstracts its programming interface through a Falcon
microcontroller. The Falcon has individual state for each channel in the VI system, and has a work list for each channel in the event of failure or successful completion. Since the Falcon's latency is small and easily bounded, it can guarantee notification read performance, effectively closing the loop from frame end to reprogramming.
- Miscellaneous hardware - VI6 also contains: a GPIO block, to interface with flashes,
mechanical shutters, and user buttons; a PWM unit, to drive sensor I/Os on a periodic time basis; and a timestamp unit, tracking system time.
#### 7.2.2.2 Functional Description
The previous section presented an overview of the VI6 architecture; in this section, we provide a detailed description of the behavior of VI6. The detailed functional description proceeds by block with each section containing a description of the block's operation and interface to software.
##### 7.2.2.2.1 CSIMUX
- CSIMUX's core is a multiplexer that takes multiple inputs from the NVCSI clock domain and
synchronizes one at a time to the VI6 internal clock. Internally, it synchronizes through asynchronous FIFOs. It outputs one-pixel packet every cycle, and no backpressure is permitted throughout the VI6 pipeline. CSIMUX is also the point at which some 8-lane sensors are de- interleaved. There is one VI_CSIMUX_CONFIG_STREAM register set for each NVCSI stream on the system. CSIMUX maintains a 16-bit frame ID counter for each virtual channel on each NVCSI stream. It is incremented with each start of frame from that virtual channel; if the FRAMEIDGEN bit for that virtual channel is set in VI_CSIMUX_STREAM_CONFIG for a stream, then the generated frame ID replaces the value from NVCSI. (Note that the initial value of the frame counter is, surprisingly, 1 and not 0!) The frame ID generator's counter is reset whenever FRAMEIDGEN is disabled. The value range of the generated frame ID is [1, 32768], inclusively. The value range works fine with any 15- bit frame ID mask.
- The VPR bit in VI_CSIMUX_STREAM_CONFIG indicates whether output must be written to VPR
- RAM. (Specifically, when a packet with the VPR bit set reaches ATOMP, the AXI bus signal
awuser[10] shall be set.) The VPR bit in the register for a brick comes from a sticky bit in the PMC specific to that NVCSI brick. This allows for VPR support that is permanently bound to an NVCSI brick and can survive VI reset. The 8-lane de-interleaver's VPR bit comes from the OR of the VPR bits of the bricks it is currently attached to.

- Video Input (VI)
- Error Handling and Recovery
CSIMUX has a multitude of events that it can detect, both in 8-lane de-interleave mode and in normal operation modes. Loosely, these are grouped into three types: stream events, frame faults, and frame status. Frame status events are events that can happen during normal operation. In the case of normal streams, the events available are FE and FS, which reflect FS and FE events on a virtual channel from NVCSI. If a fault occurs at the same time as an FS or FE event, then the tag changes to CSIMUX_FRAME, and a frame error is reported instead. If a fault occurs during a frame, the first fault is immediately reported, and any additional faults are deferred until frame end; the FE notification, in either such case, is changed to a CSIMUX_FRAME and accumulated errors are reported. Stream events are events that are error conditions; they should not occur in normal operation. In the case of normal streams, the events available are STREAM_BADPKT, which indicates that an illegal packet has been sent from NVCSI; STREAM_OVERFLOW indicates that the FIFO for this stream has overflowed; STREAM_LOF indicates that a frame start packet has been lost because of a FIFO overflow; or STREAM_SPURIOUS, which reports that the next packet after a frame end was not a frame start.
- In the 8-lane modes, these events are DEINT_{LO,HI}BADPKT, DEINT{LO,HI}OVERFLOW,
- DEINT{LO,HI}LOF, and DEINT{LO,HI}_SPURIOUS. Stream events can occur on multiple streams at
once and are reported in parallel through the CSIMUX_STREAM notification tag. Frame fault events are events that are error conditions and occur because there is an issue with the data that came from the sensor. They are as follows (listed as normal / 8-lane):
- FE_CSI_FAULT/DEINT_FE_CSI_{HI, LO}_FAULT: NVCSI has reported an error in the received
frame. Error bits from NVCSI are individually masked with the CSI_STREAM.FAULT_MASK registers; one mask register exists for each stream in the system.
- DEINT_DATA_FAULT: A general data format exception occurred while deinterleaving. A
subcode is given in the DATA_FAULT_CODE field of the payload; errors that can occur are mismatched or unexpected line-starts, mismatched or unexpected line-ends, minimum line width violations, or line size violations (for instance, having insufficient pixels to fill a de- interleaved packet).
- FS_FAULT / DEINT_FS_FAULT: A frame start was found for a virtual channel before the
previous frame was concluded with a frame end. In such an event, CSIMUX additionally injects a frame end packet; the FS_FAULT is reported synchronously to the injected FE packet.
- DEINT_FE_FAULT: A frame end arrived in the low stream, but there was no frame end nearby
in the high stream.
- FORCE_FE_FAULT/DEINT_FORCE_FE_FAULT: A frame end was injected either by the FEINJECT
mechanism or by the frame timer. DEINT_FS_FRAME_ID_FAULT: The frame IDs do not match between the high and low streams.

- Video Input (VI)
- FE_FRAME_ID_FAULT/DEINT_FE_FRAME_ID_FAULT: The frame ID from the FE packet does not
match the frame ID from the FS packet. DEINT_DTYPE_FAULT: The data-types do not match between the high and low streams. DEINT_VC_FAULT: The virtual channels do not match between the high and low streams.
- PXL_ENABLE_FAULT / DEINT_{HI, LO}_PXL_ENABLE_FAULT: An illegal pixel encoding has been
detected (for example, a non-full pixel packet without an end-of-frame identifier).
- DEINT_PXL_ENABLE_FAULT: The pixel packet encoding after merging would result in an illegal
pixel set of pixel enables.
- SPILL_FAULT: The low stream in a de-interleaved mode has more pixels than the high stream,
or there is an unexpected packet skew between the line end of the HI and LO streams.
- All events are routed to notifications when they occur, but can be overridden by the mask
registers VI_CSIMUX_NOTIFY_MASK_STREAM[...] and
- VI_CSIMUX_EIGHT_LANE_DEINT_NOTIFY_MASK. Additionally, when a frame fault event or a
stream event occurs, the STICKYFAULT bit is set in VI_CSIMUX_CONFIG_STREAM. The case in which a sensor fails to send a frame-end could potentially cause the downstream pipeline to consume resources that it may not be able to release until the frame-end arrives. To combat this, CSIMUX provides a mechanism to either manually inject a frame-end event, or automatically to inject frame-end events based on a timeout. The FEMAXTIME and FESHORTTIMER registers in _CONFIG_STREAM configure the behavior of this timeout; if FEMAXTIME is set to 0, the timeout is disabled. (FESHORTTIMER is provided to reduce the timeout for more expeditious verification.) A mechanism to force a frame end is also available through the FORCE_FE trigger bit. (FORCE_FE does not generate a frame end if there is not currently a matching frame start.) FORCE_FE should be used whenever a stream is reset, or if a stream appears to be hung (and the timeout is not desired); additionally, FORCE_FE can be used as part of hardware testing to inject short-frame errors. To reset a stream for any reason, use this specific sequence: 1.
- Set CONFIG_STREAM.QBLOCK. This disables the input FIFO and flushes any pending data
from it, ensuring that an overflow does not occur while the reset process is taking place, and ensuring that the stream resumes operation from a known state if the sensor is disabled.
- Trigger CONFIG_STREAM.FEINJECT. This terminates any frames that are in flight and marks
them with an error. Trigger CONFIG_STREAM.SRESET. This resets any overflow detection and spurious data state. For each channel linked to the stream, perform a channel reset on CHANSEL and ISPBUF. Clear CONFIG_STREAM.QBLOCK. This enables the stream for normal operation once again. 2. 3. 4. 5. Not all error conditions mandate a stream reset; the majority of these events are recoverable by the hardware. It is recommended to reset a stream in the event of a LOF error; however, in such an event it is not possible to guarantee how many frame starts have been lost, and the frame starts may have been lost from multiple virtual channels.

- Video Input (VI)
- Notifications
CSIMUX is capable of emitting four tags of NOTIFY events. In normal operation, CSIMUX emits an
- FS and an FE event. In error conditions, CSIMUX also emits CSIMUX_FRAME and CSIMUX_STREAM
events. The FS, FE, and CSIMUX_FRAME events are similar in nature, and have their payloads formatted the same way. The channel number is set to the concatenation of the NVCSI data-type with the NVCSI virtual channel number, and the payload contains the stream ID and any appropriate errors, as described preceding.
**Figure 7.11 8-Lane Modes Supported in VI**
- Eight-Lane Deinterleaving
Some sensors support a special 8-lane mode that spreads pixels across two 4-lane CSI links. CSIMUX supports deinterleaving these 8-lane sensors, however it imposes some limitations on the conditions in which this is possible. Specifically, for CSIMUX to de-interleave 8-lane modes: Both CSI links must come from adjacent bricks: link pairs cannot be arbitrarily matched up. Both CSI links must be on channel A of their respective bricks.
- Virtual channels must not be used because there must be only one virtual channel on each
link.
- The sensor must be running in a mode that outputs as eight PPC from CSI–that is to say, a
RAW mode, rather than an RGB or YUV mode. Lines must be at least nine pixels wide. (Mode 2, in x8 mode, supports lines as short as three pixels wide.)

- Video Input (VI)
The de-interleaver fits in after the FIFOs for both links, but before arbitration. When the de- interleaver is activated (by setting EIGHT_LANE_DEINT_CONFIG.MODE to a setting other than DISABLE), the de-interleaver takes the place of _both streams from the master brick, and the primary stream from the slave brick. (That is, if MUXSEL is set to PAIR_MS_02, then streams 0, 1, and 2 are deactivated.) Deactivated streams have their weight set to zero, and the de-interleaver is activated on the arbiter with the weight specified in _EIGHT_LANE_DEINT_CONFIG.WT. The FIFOs for both links, in deinterleaving mode, are no longer controlled by the arbitration logic.
- Input Swizzling
To facilitate debugging of the de-interleave logic, and to support use cases that require a single input to be routed to multiple channels simultaneously, CSIMUX provides an input swizzling circuit. The input swizzling allows any stream output into CSIMUX to take its input from any physical stream. On a micro-architectural level, the input swizzler exists in the NVCSI clock domain, before any processing (including deinterleaving). The swizzler is disabled by hardware and reset to an identity mapping if any VI6 security bits (CSI[AB|CD|EF|GH]_SECURE_ENABLE or CHANNEL_SECURE_ENABLE) are activated.
- Table 7.15 Swizzler Registers
- Register
- Field
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- VI_CSIMUX_
- STREAM_SWIZZLER
- STREAM5_SWIZZLE_SRC

