# 7.3.1 Overview

@{Key=7.3.1; Title=Overview; Body=The Video Image Compositor (VIC) supports the following features:
- Geometry transform processing for Lens Distortion Correction
- Programmable nine-point controlled warp patch for distortion correction
- Real-time on-the-fly position generation from sparse warp map surface
- Pin-cushion, barrel, or moustache distortion correction
- Distortion correction of 180- and 360-degree wide field of view (FOV) lens

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Scene perspective orientation adjustment with IPT
- Full warp map capability
- Non-fixed Patch size with 4x4 regions
- External Mask bit map surface
- Temporal noise reduction
- New Bilateral Filter as Spatial Filter
- Improved TNR3 algorithm
- Surface transform processing
- Surface transformation: Flip/Rotation/Mirror
Scaling and filtering: - - - - 1, 2, 5, or 10-tap polyphase filters
- Programmable filter coefficients
1/32 sub-pixel precision Linear interpolation for filter-type (detail/noise/normal) and scale ratio (1:1, 2:1, 4:1, 8:1, 16:1) Sub-picture and normal mode for display subtitles as well as menu buttons. -
- Filter override mode with exact filter kernel for the first five slots
- Panoramic scaling for different aspect ratios image conversion
- Detail filter clamping to avoid large ghosting effect
- Sub-pixel source rectangles to smoothly zoom into image portion
- Pixel Format Processing
- Surface format conversion: Example: Pitch Linear -> Block Linear
- Programmable GOB height
- Extensive pixel format support
- - - - - -
- Component number: T_L8 / T_Y8___U8V8
- Color space: AYUV or ARGB
- Bit depths of 8, 10, 12, or 16-bit
- Chroma formats: YUV420, YUV422, or YUV444
- Color gamuts: Rec.2020, Rec.709, or sRGB
- Memory layouts: Planar or Semi-planar
- Pixel format conversion
- - - - - 4x3 matrix multiplication conversion with soft clamping; Example: RGB -> YUV
- Color space conversion; Example: REC2020 -> REC709 -> sRGB
- Different sub-sampled chroma location; Example: (1/2, 1/2) or (0, 1/2)
- Data size conversion with MSB bits replication: RGB565 -> RGB888
2-tap or 5-tap chroma upsampling filtering
- Color correct processing
-
- YUV Scaling occurs in linear space

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- -
- Fixed lookup table based de-gamma and re-gamma support
16-bit internal data precision: S1.14 (one sign bit, one range bit, 14 fractional bits)
- Video Quality Improvement and Video Edit Tool
- De-interlacing with DiSi1, BOB, and WEAVE modes for interlaced video playback cases
- Inverse telecine with 3:2 pull down from 29.97 fps to 24 fps
- Cadence detection
- Temporal noise reduction for low-end YUV USB camera
- Luma keying with the programmable range to extract the region of interest
- Blenders and Compositor
- Maximum resolution 16384x16384 is supported
16 slots for multiple-stream composition, for example Blu-Ray content
- Eight clear rectangles
- Parameterized blender interface enables a variety of blending modes
- Color Filling the output surface with a programmable background color
#### 7.3.1.1 Use Cases
The VIC key use cases can be put into three main categories: Geometry Processing, 2D operations, and Video Post-processing operations.
##### 7.3.1.1.1 Geometry Processing for Lens Distortion Correction
VIC can perform lens distortion correction on fisheye sensors and other wide field-of-view lenses. VIC can also do stereo rectification on input stereo lens frames.
##### 7.3.1.1.2 2D Operations for UI Composition
VIC can do multi-surface composition and blending for a UI, so that VIC can be used instead of the GPU in some use cases.
##### 7.3.1.1.3 Camera Still and Video Capture
An example data flow diagram for camera use cases is referenced in the data flow diagram. Downscale and rotate still of video images for generating preview images. Crop, upscale, and rotate still of video images for digital zoom previews. Stabilize video by providing slight upscaling and cropping of an incoming video stream.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
**Figure 7.48 Camera Data Flow Diagram**
#### 7.3.1.2 Hardware Description
VIC hardware is composed of two parts: the Compositor and the LDC_TNR Geometry-transformer.
##### 7.3.1.2.1 Compositor
The Host Interface (THI) handles incoming methods from the Host Controller Bus and passes those methods to the embedded Falcon microcontroller, in addition to handling sync points. The Falcon Microcontroller is used for the host interaction (methods, context switches), controls the hardware via config space, and handles the interrupt from hardware logic. Some of the actions are:
- The AXI Frame Buffer Interface (AFBIF) handles memory read and write requests and returns
the data to the clients. The Fetch Control unit calculates the fetch region of the input surface and sends requests to the Surface Cache. The Surface Cache handles different input surface overfetch, does the internal pixel format conversion, and feeds the pixel data into the hardware pipeline.
- YUV chroma up-sampler, YUV -> RGB, Degamma, Gamut remap, Regamma, RGB -> YUV, and
- Chroma down sampler modules work together to handle different pixel formats and color
spaces. Y-scaler and X-scaler handles scale down or scale up between the input image surface and output image surface with programmable interpolation filter length. The Blender module blends all input surfaces with tile-by-tile scheme and 16 slot capabilities. SMEM works as one shared memory among submodules in Blender and LDC IP.
- Cadence detect, TNR DI statistics, and de-interlacer handle converting interlace video
content to the progressive video content via the advanced algorithm, legacy temporal noise reduction, and inverse telecine operation.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.2.2 LDC/TNR3
- The LDC/TNR3 IP shares the same THI, Falcon, AFBIF, Surface Cache, and SMEM with the
Compositor. Some of the actions are:
- The NCFG module broadcasts all register configurations to all modules and kicks-off to the
hardware pipeline.
- The TileGen module handles tile64x16 vertical traversal, mask bitmap surface reading, and
TNR3 input surface fetching.
- The IPT module does on-the-fly control point calculations for the inverse perspective
transform mode. The PosGen module does position interpolation from sparse warp map to full warp map.
- The BBPF does bounding box calculations with the input position information from PosGen,
and sends the data fetch requests to Surface Cache.
- PixelGen and LSCALAR modules work together to do sub-pixel interpolation with high
throughput.
- The TNR3 module provides spatial bilateral filter and enhanced temporal noise reduction
filter.
- The OutGen module outputs pixel data into the external memory via three channels of DMA
for different pixel formats and memory layout. The PP module does xsobel filter and 4x4 box down sample output for rectification cases.
##### 7.3.1.2.3 Configurable Surface Cache Dimensions
VIC exposes a configurable logical cache line size to software for each input slot. Because the cache height and width dimensions is chosen independent of the surface data memory layout, the 256 bytes of data fetched into the surface cache entry may not be found in contiguous memory. For example, if a cache entry is programmed to logically represent 64x4 bytes of pixel data, and the source data is fetched from a pitch linear surface, then the data needs to be fetched from four non-contiguous 64-byte segments of memory. While a single cache line may now include data from as many as four non-contiguous segments of memory, the tag for each Surface Cache entry continues to point to the data located at the top left corner of the pixels contents within the cache line. The logical width and height of each surface cache entry can now represent pixel data in the following configurations: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 256x1 bytes 128x2 bytes 64x4 bytes 32x8 bytes 16x16 bytes

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- When programming the logical cache height and width, the dimensions should be chosen to
minimize over-fetch based on the function for which the data is used (e.g., de-interlacing, scaling with various numbers of tap filters, etc.). The logical cache height should be chosen to be a multiple of the source surface memory layout height given the memory system fetch atom height, and similarly, the logical cache width should be chosen to be a multiple of the source surface memory layout width given the memory system fetch atom width. The table below summarizes these requirements.
- Table 7.54 Programmable Surface Cache Dimensions
- Logical cache-line
dimensions
- Buffer width
restriction
- Luma/Chroma height
restriction
- Cache width
(as programmed in
- ConfigStruct)
16Bx16
- Multiple of 16B
- Multiple of 16 lines
32Bx8
- Multiple of 32B
- Multiple of 8 lines
64Bx4
- Multiple of 64B
- Multiple of 4 lines
128Bx2
- Multiple of 128B
- Multiple of 2 lines
256Bx1
- Multiple of 256B
N/A For the VIC pre-process pass (noise reduction, motion adaptation values, cadence detection, etc.), the hardware has to fetch 16Bx16 sections of memory and the cache width is forced to 0 by the Falcon (only for the pre-process pass). Using pitch linear buffers for surfaces that require pre- processing is therefore strongly discouraged.
##### 7.3.1.2.4 Maximum Surface and Rectangle Size Support
VIC supports surface and rectangle sizes up to 16384x16384 pixels. All configurable surface width and height parameters, and configurable rectangle dimensions in the Fetch Control, Surface List, and Output Buffer, support up to 16384x16384 surfaces and rectangles. All related fields in the ConfigStruct and associated registers are 14 bits to support this.
#### 7.3.1.3 Pixel Format Conversion
##### 7.3.1.3.1 Memory Format Support
- The following memory formats are supported on input and output. Note that input and output
memory formats do not have to match. 1. 2. 3. 4.
- Pitch Linear
- Block Linear (16Bx2 kind with sector ordering)
64x8 byte Gob format with 16x2 byte sectors
- Contiguous 64B atoms are laid out as 32x2 byte blocks

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Note: Refer to the Pixel Memory Formats chapter for more details.
- The VIC Surface Cache supports the above memory formats on input when fetching pixel data
from memory. The VIC Output Buffer supports the above memory formats on input when reading background image data, when pre-processing inverse telecine data from memory, and on the output side when writing composited image data back to memory. Memory formats supported by VIC are enumerated as follows:
- Table 7.55 Memory Format Enumerations
- Surface Kind Enumeration
- Encoding (four bits)
- BLK_KIND_PITCH
0x0
- BLK_KIND_GENERIC_16Bx2_TEGRA
0x1 To fully support the Block Linear format, block height should be programmable to any one of the following set of enumerations.
- Table 7.56 Block Height Enumerations
- Block Height Enumeration
- Value
- Encoding (four bits, log2 encoding)
- ONE_GOB
- TWO_GOBS
- FOUR_GOBS
- EIGHT_GOBS
- SIXTEEN_GOBS
- THIRTYTWO_GOBS
##### 7.3.1.3.2 Pixel Format Support
The VIC pipeline supports a large number of pixel formats. The VIC pipeline accepts a surface of a given input pixel format and produces a given output pixel format. The following table lists all the pixel formats supported in VIC and any restrictions on their usage. The symbols in color conversion mode column describe the internal VIC representation of the format, (e.g., 1P_1C represents one plane with one component pixels, 2P_1+2C represents two planes, one plane with one component pixels, and a second plane with two component pixels).

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Table 7.57 Pixel Format Support
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_L8/ T_Y8/ T_YUV100 Y Y Y Y N N T_A4L4 Y Y Y Y N N T_L4A4 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8L8 Y Y Y Y N N T_L8A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_L16 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8G8 Y Y Y Y N N T_G8R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G6R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G6B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B6G5R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G5B6 Y Y Y Y N N T_A1B5G5R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_A1R5G5B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G5R5A1 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G5B5A1 Y Y Y Y N N T_A5B5G5R1 Y Y Y Y N N T_A5R1G5B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G5R1A5 Y Y Y Y N N T_R1G5B5A5 Y Y Y Y N N T_X1B5G5R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_X1R5G5B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G5R5X1 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G5B5X1 Y Y Y Y N N T_A4B4G4R4 Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_A4R4G4B4 Y Y Y Y N N T_B4G4R4A4 Y Y Y Y N N T_R4G4B4A4 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8B8G8R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8R8G8B8 Y Y Y Y N N T_B8G8R8A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8G8B8A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_X8B8G8R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_X8R8G8B8 Y Y Y Y N N T_B8G8R8X8 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8G8B8X8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A2B10G10R10 Y Y Y Y N N T_A2R10G10B10 Y Y Y Y N N T_B10G10R10A2 Y Y Y Y N N T_R10G10B10A2 Y Y Y Y N N T_A16B16G16R16 Y Y Y Y N N T_A4P4 Y N Y Y N N T_P4A4 Y N Y Y N N T_P8A8 Y N Y Y N N T_A8P8 Y N Y Y N N T_P8 Y N Y Y N N T_P1 Y N Y Y N N T_U8V8 Y Y Y Y N N T_V8U8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8Y8U8V8 (AYUV444 packed) Y Y Y Y N N T_V8U8Y8A8 (AYUV444 packed) Y Y Y Y N N T_A16Y16U16V16 Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8 (YUV422 packed)
- YUY2/YUYV
Y Y Y Y Y Y T_Y8_V8__Y8_U8 (YUV422 packed)
- YVYU
Y Y Y Y N N T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8 (YUV422 packed)
- UYVY
Y Y Y Y Y Y T_V8_Y8__U8_Y8 (YUV422 packed) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) e.g., NV61 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) e.g., NV16 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) e.g., NV21 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) e.g., NV12 Y Y Y Y Y Y T_Y8__U8__V8_N444 (YUV444 planar)** e.g., YV24 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8__U8__V8_N422 (YUV422 planar)** e.g., YV16 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8__U8__V8_N422R (YUV422R planar) ** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8__U8__V8_N420 (YUV420 planar) ** e.g., YV12 Y Y Y Y Y Y T_Y10___U10V10_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___V10U10_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___U10V10_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_Y10___V10U10_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___U10V10_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___V10U10_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___U10V10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___V10U10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N Y T_Y10__U10__V10_N444 (YUV444 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10__U10__V10_N422 (YUV422 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10__U10__V10_N422R (YUV422R planar) ** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10__U10__V10_N420 (YUV420 planar) ** Y Y Y Y N Y T_Y12___U12V12_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___U12V12_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___U12V12_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___U12V12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N Y*** T_Y12__U12__V12_N444 (YUV444 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12__U12__V12_N422 (YUV422 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_Y12__U12__V12_N422R (YUV422R planar) ** Y Y Y Y N N
- DiSi1 de-interlacing only works on NV24 surfaces and field-based variants of NV12, YV12, YUY2,
and UYVY formats (with each field stored in a separate surface).
- * VIC has support for three independent surface pointers for each of the input slots and output
surfaces, one each for luma, chroma-u, and chroma-v.
- ** 12-bit YUV pixel formats are supported for the TNR pass with only read/write support with no
increase in the internal pipeline width. The pixels therefore are truncated to 10-bit precision before and after processing.
- ** 12-bit YUV pixel formats for the composition pass are processed using the existing 14-bit
fractional precision pipeline. This means it does not accurately de-gamma these higher precision pixel formats. In the color format, the notation called "A:B:C" is used to describe how often U and V are sampled relative to Y. 444 (4:4:4) means no down sampling of the chroma channels. 422 (4:2:2) means 2:1 horizontal down sampling, with no vertical down sampling. Every scan line contains four Y samples for every two U and V sample pairs. 420 (4:2:0) means 2:1 horizontal down sampling, with 2:1 vertical down sampling. R refers to rotated. 422 by default means horizontal down sampling; while 422R means vertical down sampling. Instead of the chroma being shared between two horizontally adjacent luma components, it's shared between two vertically adjacent luma components. Note: VIC does not support 24-bit color formats, either RGB or YUV.
##### 7.3.1.3.3 Pixel Format Conversion
Color conversion (CC) and proc-amp are implemented using a matrix multiplication on every pixel. The matrix only changes when the surfaces changes. Current chain of operations:
- Proc-amp + Output CC (4x3 matrix)
- Clamping (optional soft clamping, two control entry)
1. 2. The 4x3 matrix values are specified in the MatrixStruct as S12.8 values. In addition, the result of the matrix multiplication is right shifted by r_shift. To allow for highest accuracy, r_shift should always be as high as possible without losing any range in the other coefficients. Note that the constant offsets (c03, c13, c23) are S12.8 and are not affected by r_shift.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Soft clamping defines a piece-wise linear function consisting of three pieces. The control entries define the area of soft clamping, i.e., for the values a and b we get the following pseudo-code: if (v < -a) v' = 0 else if (-a <= v < a) v' = (v+a)/2 else if (a <= v < b) v' = v else if (b <= v < (2-b)) v' = (v+b)/2 else if ((2-b) <= v) v' = 1 When converting between pixel formats with components of varying bit width, bit replication is used for expanding component bit widths, and truncation is used for reducing component bit widths. Note: Dithering and un-dithering is not supported.
- Handling Sub-sampled Chroma Formats
- The chroma location for pixel formats with sub-sampled chroma can be specified using the
- ChromaLocHoriz and ChromaLocVert parameters in the VIC config structure. Each of these
parameters can take values 0, 1, or 2 representing a chroma location as listed in the table below.
- Table 7.58 Example Chroma Location
- ChromaLoc
- Chroma Position
- Co-sited with even luma values
- Mid-way between even and odd luma values
- Co-sited with odd luma values
- Table 7.59 Example ChromaLoc Values
- Format
- ChromaLocHoriz
- ChromaLocVert
- Comment
4:4:4
- Don't Care
- Don't Care
- Not sub-sampled
4:2:2 – BT601
- Don't Care
4:2:0 – MPEG1 4:2:0 – MPEG2

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Data Size Conversion
- When expanding the number of bits in a component (e.g., from RGB565 to RGB888), expansion
should use bit replication of the MSBs of the original value to fill in the LSBs of the expanded bit length value. For example, if converting from a 5-bit value to 8-bit value, the first three MSBs of the source 5-bit value are concatenated as the three new LSBs to the original 5-bit value to produce the new expanded 8-bit value. e.g., 5-bit R5 = 11000'b expanded to 8 bit R8 = 11000110'b When reducing the number of bits in a component (e.g., from RGB888 to RGB565), the LSBs of the old value are truncated to arrive at the shortened value. e.g., 8-bit R8 = 11000000'b reduced to 5 bit R5 = 11000'b Replication followed by truncation ensures that the truncated value equals the original pre- replicated operand, i.e., RGB565 -> RGB888 expansion followed immediately by RGB888 -> RGB565 reduction results in the same original value.
- Luminance Conversion
Conversion from luminance-only color formats (e.g., L8/Y8/YUV100, A8L8, etc.) to and from RGB or YUV formats should be done as outlined below.
- Luminance-only to YUV
L -> Y, 128 -> U, 128 -> V
- Luminance-only to RGB
L -> R, L -> G, L -> B
- YUV to Luminance-only
Y -> L
- Clamp L between 0.0 and 1.0
- RGB to Luminance-only
(R*5 + G*9 + B*2)/16 -> L
- Clamp L between 0.0 and 1.0
- Adding and Removing Alpha
If converting from a pixel format with alpha to a pixel format with no alpha, the alpha value is dropped. If converting from a pixel format with no alpha to a pixel format with alpha, the alpha value in the destination pixel format should be set to 1.0.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.3.4 Chroma Upsampling
- VIC implements a fixed function YUV chroma up-sampling that allows pixel formats with sub-
sampled chroma to be up-sampled to YUV444 right at the beginning of the pipeline, allowing them to be converted to RGB, passed through de-gamma and then sent through the scaling/blending pipelines just like other RGB formats. This feature is required to be able to scale YUV surfaces in linear space. The up-sampling block supports both 2-tap and 5-tap up-sampling modes. It supports both a two component/pixel (UV plane) mode, as well as a one component/pixel mode (U plane or V plane). Any other mode that does not require chroma up-sampling is passed through the pipeline untouched. 5-tap mode is recommended for high-quality video use-cases.
##### 7.3.1.3.5 Color Correct Processing
VIC processes colors "correctly," meaning that it follows industry-standard guidelines when doing image processing like scaling, compositing, etc. In particular, all linear operations like scaling and blending are done in the linear pixel space after correcting for any non-linear gamma inputs.
- Full Degamma/Regamma Support
VIC has full support for reading, writing, and processing gamma space color space pixels. This means that VIC puts pixels through a degamma logic shortly after they are read; pixel processing including scaling, gamut mapping, and blending then happen in the linear color space, and there is a regamma conversion to convert pixels back into the gamma space before they are written out.
- Since VIC has to process different types of content, each of which might be encoded with a
different gamma, the degamma logic allows software to program the parameters of the gamma equation into the VIC config structure as necessary. Similarly, the output regamma logic implemented in a programmable fashion so that software can choose the output gamma space as necessary.
##### 7.3.1.3.6 Surface Transform Processing
- Surface Transformation
The blend unit is responsible for generating the destination surface addressing that implements mirroring (across X-axis and/or Y-axis) of tiles within the Target rectangle of the output surface. The output buffer implements the ability to mirror pixels in the X and Y directions within each output tile. This ability, in addition to the fetch control changes mentioned above, give VIC the ability to flip the contents of the entire Target rectangle about its axis.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
The output buffer also implements the hardware necessary to support transposition of the Target Rectangle. This ability, when combined with the target rectangle flips described above, gives VIC the ability to rotate images by any multiple of 90 degrees. Rotation must be done in the pipeline after de-interlacing because the de-interlacer assumes a normal orientation of the input fields (interlaced field lines run horizontal). Rotation of the image prior to de-interlacing makes the de-interlacer ineffective.
**Figure 7.49 Interlaced Field Lines Run Horizontally**
The programmed starting address of the source and destination rectangles remain at the upper left corner of the unit. The Source Image diagrammed below shows the logical tile traversal pattern as the input rectangle traverses the VIC unit (tiles are read in raster order from left to right, then top to bottom). The destination rectangle diagrammed below shows the expected transformations when the programmer specifies the combination of flipX, flipY, and transposeXY transformations available to be applied to the output rectangle.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
**Figure 7.50 Surface Transformation Orientations**
- Table 7.60 Output Buffer Surface Transformation Controls
- Transformation
transposeXY flipY flipX
- Normal (no transformation)
H flip (mirror on vertical axis) V flip (mirror on horizontal axis) 180-degree rotation
- Mirror on 315-degree axis
270-degree rotation 90-degree rotation
- Mirror on 45-degree axis

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Surface mirroring (FlipX/FlipY) is accomplished via programming of the OutputConfig structure.
- Surface transposition is accomplished via programming of the OutputTranspose field of the
OutputConfig structure. The results of the transformations are summarized in the rules below. 1.
- The output surface parameters (SurfaceWidth/Height, LumaWidth/Height, and
- ChromaWidth/Height) are transposed when output transpose is enabled. This means that if
the target rectangle/destination rectangles fit within the output surface before transformation, they also fit within the output surface after all transformations are done. The position of the target rectangle in the output surface gets flipped or transposed along with all of its contents (clear rectangles and destination rectangles) when OutputFlipX/ OutputFlipY/OutputTranspose are enabled.
- When output flips are enabled, the entire contents of the target rectangle are flipped,
including all ClearRects and DestinationRects and their contents. The axis of the flip is the axis of the output surface.
- When OutputTranspose is enabled, the position of the target rectangle is transposed, as
does its contents (including all clear/destination rectangles).
- When transpose and flips are enabled together, the overall effect of the transformation
happens as if the flip operations occur first, followed by the transpose operation. 2. 3. 4. 5.
- Scaling and Filtering
The VIC contains Y and X-scaler units that together allow 5 or 10 tap polyphase filtering and scaling of the input surface. The hardware is programmed with a set of filter coefficients for each filter-type (Detail/Noise/Normal), phase (0,1/32,2/32, .. 32/32), scale ratio (1:1, 2:1, 4:1, 8:1, 16:1), filter length (5-tap, 10-tap) and stream (sub-picture or normal). Based on the actual scale-ratio, phase etc. the hardware can then interpolate between these programmed values for use in the actual filters. There are four filter types (5 tap non-substream, 5 tap substream, and 10 tap non-substream, 10 tap substream). Therefore there are five tables for each coefficient type, as well as different tables for different scale down ratio of 1:1, 2:1, 4:1, 8:1, and 16:1. This means there are a total of 20 tables and that the maximum downscale ratio is 16:1. Each table has 16x4 memory entries (for 5-tap filter) or 16x9 memory entries (for 10-tap filter). Each memory entry has three 10-bit base coefficients (for Detail/Noise/Default) that are feed into a LERP3 simultaneously to interpolate based on different noise and detail weight. The table has 16 columns, and each column stores all the coefficients for phase 0/32, 1/32, 2/32, 3/32, 4/32, 5/32, 6/32, 7/32, 8/32, 9/32, 10/32, 11/32, 12/32, 13/32, 14/32, and 15/32, with the exception that the first column stores coefficients for both 0/32 and 16/32. Each column stores four sets of base coefficients for 5-tap filter because the last coefficient can be derived from the remaining four. Phase 0/32 and 16/32 are special cases in that only two sets of base coefficients are needed for each of them in 5-tap case and only four sets of base coefficients are needed for phase 0/32 in 10-tap case and five sets of base coefficients are needed for phase

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
16/32 in 10-tap case. Therefore, phase 0/32 and 16/32 are folded into the same column. Due to symmetry, we don't need to store base coefficients for phases 17 through 31. VIC also implements 1-tap (nearest-neighbor) and 2-tap (bi-linear) filtering modes. These modes can be used when power and bandwidth are of greater concern than quality. The 1- and 2-tap modes use filter coefficients that are based only on the output pixel phase with respect to the input pixel grid, and do not use the programmable coefficient tables at all. As a result, it doesn't make sense to enable Detail Filtering or Noise Filtering when using these modes.
- Subpixel Source Rectangles
VIC has the ability to specify source rectangles to a sub-pixel resolution. This feature is used in cases requiring a smooth zoom into a portion of an image in real-time, for example when using the zoom button on a camera.
##### 7.3.1.3.7 Video Quality Improve
- De-interlacing
The VIC supports various modes of de-interlacing the input video content such as DiSi1, BOB, and WEAVE. Weave is only used on progressive content or in case inverse telecine detected a cadence.
##### 7.3.1.3.8 Temporal Noise Reduction
- TNR1
VIC has a temporal noise reduction (TNR) algorithm based on a motion adaptive IIR filter, where the filter weight was adapted based on a few constants and the SOS difference between a 3x3 neighborhood of pixels around the current pixel in the current and previous frames. SOS = sum_of_squared_differences between current and prev frame in 3x3 neighborhood.
- If (!denoise || (sos >> (20-deblur_const))!=0) {
alpha = 0; } else { alpha = min(1024, iir - ((iir * sos) >> (20-deblur_const))); } mul = hdr? max(0, min(1024, ((c * hdrm)>>10) + hdrb)) : 1024; alpha = (alpha * mul) >> 10; diffc = fc - c; dc = diffc * diffc; ad = max(4, abs(dc) * ac); max_alpha = la ? 1024 - 4096/ad : 1024;

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
alpha = min(alpha, max_alpha); out = ((alpha * diffc)>>10) + c; The pixel differences calculated in the above algorithm can be written out as a motion-adaptation buffer to memory for use in the motion-adaptive de-interlacing algorithm (DiSi1).
##### 7.3.1.3.9 Blender
- Blender Configuration
The blender API allows for symmetric blend modes between the VIC and Display units. The VIC blender supports the following different blending modes:
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_OPAQUE
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_BACKGROUND
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_DESTINATION
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_SOURCE_ALPHA
- All modes other than _ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED are as defined in the Microsoft DirectX
Video Acceleration 2.0 Enhanced Video Processor specification (DXVA). The mode that allows the VIC and Display blenders to match each other is enabled by setting the AlphaFillMode in the
- OutputConfig structure to _ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED. When the AlphaFillMode is set to
anything other than _ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED, the srcFact and dstFact parameters specified below are ignored and do not affect the processing. The parameterizable blender interface allows a variety of blend modes, including the following:
- Per-Pixel Non-Premultiplied Alpha Blend output = src*src_alpha + dst*(1-src_alpha)
- Per Pixel Source Premultiplied Alpha Blend output = src + dst*(1-src_alpha)
- Constant-Alpha Blend output = src*const_alpha + dst*(1-const_alpha)
- Per-Pixel Non-Premultiplied Alpha Blend with constant blend output =
src*src_alpha*const_alpha + dst*(1-src_alpha*const_alpha)
- Per-Pixel Premultiplied Alpha Blend with constant blend output = src*const_alpha + dst*(1-
src_alpha*const_alpha) Note that color-key is not supported and the following text should be read keeping in mind that ColorKeySelect should always be set to disabled. The blend data path requires the color key comparison match the result, and per-slot inputs from the config structure to formulate the blend equation. srcFactC, srcFactA, dstFactC, and dstFactA multiplicand inputs are determined by the config structure programming and color key comparison results.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Table 7.61 Per-slot Blend Configuration
- Blend Spec Name
- Register Name
- Description
- K1
- AlphaK1
8-bit constant alpha value
- K2
- AlphaK2
8-bit constant alpha value srcFactC_Match_Select srcFactCMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets srcFactC:
- K1: AlphaK1
- K1_TIMES_DST: AlphaK1*dstA
- NEG_K1_TIMES_DST: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*dstA)
- K1_TIMES_SRC: AlphaK1*srcA
- ZERO: 0
dstFactC_Match_Select dstFactCMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets dstFactC:
- K1: AlphaK1
- K2: AlphaK2
- K1_TIMES_DST: AlphaK1*dstA
- NEG_K1_TIMES_DST: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*dstA)
- NEG_K1_TIMES_SRC: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*srcA)
- ZERO: 0
- ONE: 1.0
srcFactA_Match_Select srcFactAMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets srcFactA:
- K1: AlphaK1
- K2: AlphaK2
- ZERO: 0
- NEG_K1_TIMES_DST: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*dstA) dstFactA_Match_Select dstFactAMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets dstFactA:
- K2: AlphaK2
- NEG_K1_TIMES_SRC: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*srcA)
- ZERO: 0
- ONE: 1.0
- UseK3
- UseOverrideR
1-bit boolean to override srcR with constant values K3R
- UseK3
- UseOverrideG
1-bit boolean to override srcG with constant values K3G
- UseK3
- UseOverrideB
1-bit boolean to override srcB with constant values K3B
- UseK3
- UseOverrideA
1-bit boolean to override srcA with constant values K3A
- K3R
- OverrideR
10-bit source override R value
- K3G
- OverrideG
10-bit source override G value

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Blend Spec Name
- Register Name
- Description
- K3B
- OverrideB
10-bit source override B value
- K3A
- OverrideA
10-bit source override A value
- MaskR
- MaskR
1-bit boolean to override outputR to equal dstR
- MaskG
- MaskG
1-bit boolean to override outputG to equal dstG
- MaskB
- MaskB
1-bit boolean to override outputB to equal dstB
- MaskA
- MaskA
1-bit boolean to override outputA to equal dstA Given the source and destination factor settings based on config structure inputs and color match results, the per-pixel blend equations are as follows, where srcR, srcG, srcB, srcA, dstR, dstG, dstB, and dstA represent the incoming R, G, B, and A components of the incoming source and already present destination pixels in the SFMem buffer (blended results of background and slot[0] through to slot[n-1] for input slot[n]). outputR = (srcFactC * srcR) + (dstFactC * dstR) outputG = (srcFactC * srcG) + (dstFactC * dstG) outputB = (srcFactC * srcB) + (dstFactC * dstB) outputA = (srcFactA * srcA) + (dstFactA * dstA) srcFactC, srcFactA, dstFactC, and dstFactA are programmed by srcFactCMatchSelect, srcFactCMatchSelect, srcFactCMatchSelect, and srcFactCMatchSelect respectively.
- UseK3 allows the incoming source components to be overridden by constant color components
K3R, K3G, K3B, and K3A.
- MaskR, MaskG, MaskB, and MaskA boolean settings provide additional per-component mask bits
to allow pass-through of the destination pixel components to the output pixel. A programmable background color can still be set to fill the target rectangle background via the OutputConfig structure. The programmed background color should follow these rules: The background color is programmed in the same color space as the blending color space. For example, if the blending is happening in an RGB color space, then the background color is treated as an ARGB value. If the blending happens in a YUV color space, the background color is treated as an AYUV value. Similarly, if the blending happens in a linear color space, the background color is treated as a linear color space value. If the blending is in non-linear space, then the background color is also expected to be non-linear.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.3.10 Surface Composition
**Figure 7.51 Programming Input and Output Surface Parameters**
The maximum dimension of any image on the input or output sides of the VIC is 16384 pixels. The dimensions of each input slot surface can be defined along with the pixel and memory format types in the VIC Config Structure. A source rectangle defines the region of pixels of the input slot surface that contributes to the composition of the output surface, and a destination rectangle defines the region of the output surface that is affected by a given input slot. Together, the source and destination rectangle parameters specify the scaling ratios desired. Each slot can also dictate how pixel data is laid out in each surface cache entry by specifying the amount of pixel data, i.e., the number of bytes wide, logically represented by each cache entry; this provides flexibility in reducing the memory over fetch associated with fetch of surfaces under various use cases (e.g., scaling ratios, de-interlacing modes, etc.).

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Via the OutputConfig structure, the dimensions of the output surface can be defined along with the pixel and memory format types. The same structure also defines a target rectangle to restrict the pixel processing output to a certain rectangle in the output surface. A programmable color can also be set to fill the background of the target rectangle. The VIC allows the programming of clear rectangles that prevent the fetch of pixels from specific rectangular regions of input slots. The use of the clear rectangles can be used to reduce redundant pixel fetches, for example, if an opaque surface is known to occlude a layer below it, a clear rectangle can be specified to prevent fetching of pixels from the occluded region of the lower layer. Up to eight clear rectangles are specified via the ClearRectStruct structs, and per-slot clear rectangle mask enables are specified via the SlotConfig struct. Clear rectangles are specified relative to the output surface coordinate system. With the addition of the sub-pixel source rectangle feature, source rectangle coordinates are specified in the config structure in a U14.16 format, allowing us to specify the source rectangle at a sub-pixel resolution. Destination, target, and clear rectangles coordinates are pixel aligned.
#### 7.3.1.4 Geometry Transform Processing
##### 7.3.1.4.1 SubFeature List
- Four pixel/clock throughput
16-bit input pixel format
- Full warp map capability
- Uniform spaced sparse warp map
- Programmable nine control points spline patch
- Non-fixed patch size
4x4 bicubic pixel interpolation filter
- Out-of-the-bound check via MaskBitMap
- On-the-fly inverse perspective transform only support
- Sub-frame level processing
- Xsobel and 4x4 downsample
- Table 7.62 Supported Pixel Format
- Enumerant
- Value
T_R8 T_Y8___V8U8_N444 T_Y8___V8U8_N422 T_Y8___V8U8_N420 T_R16

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Enumerant
- Value
T_Y16___V16U16_N444 T_Y16___V16U16_N422 T_Y16___V16U16_N420 T_Y10___V10U10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y12___V12U12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Note: Output format is always same as input format.
- Table 7.63 Surface Memory Format
- Surface Name
- Value
- Pixel image surface
- Pitch Linear / Block Linear (16x2)
- Programmable GOB height
- Sparse Warp Map Surface MAP_XY
- Pitch Linear, X/Y Interleaved, S15.5 precision, and 8 bytes per control points
- MskBitMap Surface
- Tile64x16 Linear
- Pixel interpolation coefficient surface
- Linear
- XSobel Gradient surface
- Block Linear (16x2) / Pitch Linear
- Xsobel 4x4 downsample surface
- Block Linear (16x2) / Pitch Linear
- Xsobel Neighbor surface
- Internal work buffer
MskBitMap Surface stores in Tile64x16 the linear format.
- Linear array: bool MskBitMap[ y*stride + x ]
Tile64x16 linear array: bool MskBitMap[ ( (y/16) * (stride/64) + (x/64)) * (64x16) + (y%16) * 64 + x%64] For one tile 64x16, it costs the address-continuous 128Bytes to store the mask bit information. Control point format in memory:
**Figure 7.52 Control Point Format**

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.4.2 Temporal Noise Reduction
Processing video to reduce noise can significantly improve the quality. A low complexity Motion- adaptive Temporal filtering noise reduction mechanism which also adapts to video content and ambient lighting conditions is described here.
- Table 7.64 TNR Feature List
- Feature
- Change from Parker
4 Pixel/clock throughput
- New
- Bilateral Spatial Filter
- New
- Pixel-wise SAD calculation
- Changed
- Improved SAD-alpha curve
- Changed
- Temporal alpha restrict
- New
- Non-temporal beta blending
- Changed
- Flexible alpha clip for luma and chroma
- Changed
- Flexible alpha-beta curve
- Changed
- Register-level programming
- Changed
- Sub-frame level processing
- New
- Merged LDC_TNR in one pass
- New
- TNR bypass mode
- New
- Table 7.65 Supported Pixel Formats
- Enumerant
- Value
T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8 (YUV422 packed) (YUY2/YUYV) T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8 (YUV422 packed) (UYVY) T_Y8___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y8__U8__V8_N420 (YUV420 planar, YV12) T_Y10___V10U10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y10__U10__V10_N420 (YUV420 planar) T_Y12___V12U12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y12__U12__V12_N420 (YUV420 planar) Notes:

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
1. Output format is always same as input format 2. T_Y8__U8__V8_N420 is equal to YV12
- Table 7.66 Surface Memory Format
- Surface Name
- Value
- Pixel image surface
- Pitch Linear / Block Linear (16x2)
- Programmable GOB height
- TNR alpha, top and left data
- Internal work buffer
##### 7.3.1.4.3 16-bit New Pixel Format Scale
Scaling support in the CV pipeline requires 16-bit data format support throughout the VIC scaling pipeline. VIC is used to crop the ROI from the original wide camera to get the DLA network input resolution. For example: 960x540@540fps-Y16 -> VIC -> 224x224@540-Y16 -> DLA (downscale) 192x108@1080fps-Y16 -> VIC -> 224x224@1080-Y16 -> DLA (upscale)
- SubFeature List
16-bit input pixel format
- Internal data-path precision promotion
#### 7.3.1.5 Power Management
In the SoC, VIC is spread over two layout partitions namely VICA and VICB, but all of it belongs to a single PG domain VIC.
##### 7.3.1.5.1 Clock Gating Requirements
- Hierarchical Clock Gating
VIC supports clock gating. First-level clock gating (FLCG) refers to clock gating of the top-level VIC_CLK clock input into the VIC unit which is controlled by software. First-level clock gating can be enabled by software to reduce power when VIC is inactive. Second-level clock gating (SLCG) refers to clock gating of individual portions of the VIC pipeline, controlled by the VIC hardware, with software overrides. When each frame completes, no further work is pending in the method stream and all portions of the VIC pipeline are idle, then each major portion of the VIC pipeline is clock gated automatically by the hardware.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
A block-level clock gating (BLCG) controller monitors vic_idle (idling of all logic in the vic_clk domain). When vic_clk logic is idle, the vic_clk clk_en signal to CAR is deasserted, automatically disabling the vic_clk at the root and thus saving power in the clock tree. A free running vic_clk_nobg clock is required for the BLCG controller to work. The BLCG controller is configurable (e.g., enable, idle_delay count, wakeup delay count, etc.) via CSB registers in the VIC MISC space.
- Activity Monitor Activity Signal
The VIC does not include any direct power monitoring features. It exports an activity monitoring signal that is utilized by the DVFS software to program the VIC clock frequencies and voltages. A Per-Unit Activity Monitor (ACTMON) monitors VIC activity. The ACTMON receives an activity signal from the VIC engine, and using that information, generates an IIR average that is compared against watermark thresholds, and interrupts software whenever certain activity thresholds are exceeded.
- The ACTMON is monitored by software and aids in power management policies, such as setting
VIC's clock frequency, enabling and disabling first level clock gating, and power gating of the engine. The VIC activity sent to the ACTMON is asserted from the time that VIC first fetches a method for processing from THI, until the moment that pixel data processing completes and end of frame is asserted. Any activity within the THI either before the start of method fetch by VIC or after end of frame does not add to the accumulated VIC activity.
##### 7.3.1.5.2 Power Gating
The VIC is located in its own partition(s) which are power-gateable. VIC power-gating is enabled in LP0/LP1 states, as well as after extended periods of inactivity. When the VIC is split across multiple partitions, it is expected that all partitions are power-gated (or not) together; there is no use-case where some partitions are power-gated and other partitions are not. Software is responsible for making sure VIC is idle, saving/restoring context, reloading the Falcon firmware, and rebooting it whenever power-gating the unit.
##### 7.3.1.5.3 Power Gating Sequence
- VIC Clocks and Resets
The following are the CAR register fields associated with VIC clocks:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_VIC_0.CLK_ENB_VIC
The following are the CAR register fields associated with VIC resets:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_VIC_0.SWR_VIC_RST

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- VIC Power Gating
1. 2.
- Enable VIC clock(s)
- Flush MC client VIC
a. Set the MC register bit:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0.VIC_FLUSH_ENABLE
Poll MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_0 until the following bits are set:
- VIC_HOTRESET_STATUS
b. 3.
- Apply clamps
a. b.
- Write to PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0 with CLAMP=ON
- Wait 100 ns for clamps to engage
4. 5. 6.
- Assert VIC resets
- Disable VIC clocks
- Set VIC power state to PG
a. b.
- Write PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit START==DONE
- Read PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that desired state is
reached. If there is a mismatch, flag ERROR c.
- VIC Power Ungating
1.
- Set VIC power state to ON
a. b.
- Write PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit START==DONE
- Read PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that the desired state is
reached. If there is a mismatch, flag ERROR c. 2. 3.
- Enable VIC clock(s)
- Assert VIC reset(s)
a. b.
- Write CAR register(s) specified above
- Add 2 µs delay to allow flushing of non-resettable flops
4.
- Release clamps
a. b.
- Write to PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0 with CLAMP=OFF
- Wait 100 ns for clamps to disengage
5. 6.
- Deassert VIC reset(s)
Enable MC client VIC by clearing the following bits: a.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0.VIC_FLUSH_ENABLE
7. Optionally (if requested by the unit's driver), disables VIC clock(s).

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.5.4 Instantiate Error Collator and Hook Up Faults to HSM
To standardize the reporting and testability of fault reports to the HSM, the VIC adopts the standard Error Collator plug-ins. The VIC instantiates these plugins to collect the various safety related errors and provide two fault lines (correctable and uncorrectable) to the HSM. The errors reported to the HSM are the Falcon IMEM-ECC (correctable, uncorrectable), Falcon DMEM-Parity, Falcon firmware (correctable, uncorrectable) including timeout, and errors discovered during periodic testing.
- Table 7.67 List of VIC Error Types
- Error name
- Produced by
- Output error signal
- Falcon IMEM ECC SEC
- ECC plugin terminal
vic_fault_corrected
- Falcon IMEM ECC DED
- ECC plugin terminal
vic_fault_critical
- Falcon DMEM parity
- Parity plugin terminal
vic_fault_critical
- Falcon Software correctable Error
- Software corrected errors
vic_fault_corrected
- Falcon Software critical Error
- Software critical errors
vic_fault_critical Embedded safety within Falcon provides two ERBs (Embedded RuBys) for firmware to send fault reports. These ERBs connect to the error collator, while Falcon reports both corrected errors and critical errors detected by firmware based protection. The errors include:
- Corruption of critical configuration registers
- Internal IP hardware timeout
- Other firmware based safety errors
#### 7.3.1.6 Virtualization
Virtualization is implemented by the Host Interface (THI); the Host Interface serves as an interface between the SoC Host Controller and Falcon microcontroller(s).
- Two StreamIDs should be available for VIC engine, one (StreamID1) for internal Falcon use,
and the other (StreamID0) for VIC processing pipeline use.
- Both StreamIDs should be programmable by Host Controller RM privilege (TrustZone is
optional), but NOT by other security privileges.
- StreamID0 should be programmable by either Channel programming or MMIO, StreamID1
should be only programmable by MMIO.
- Channel Lock (CH_LOCK) should be supported, when enabled (CH_LOCK=1), push buffer
commands should NOT be allowed to access non-THI registers.

- VIC Programming Guidelines}(@{Key=7.3.1; Title=Overview; Body=The Video Image Compositor (VIC) supports the following features:
- Geometry transform processing for Lens Distortion Correction
- Programmable nine-point controlled warp patch for distortion correction
- Real-time on-the-fly position generation from sparse warp map surface
- Pin-cushion, barrel, or moustache distortion correction
- Distortion correction of 180- and 360-degree wide field of view (FOV) lens

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Scene perspective orientation adjustment with IPT
- Full warp map capability
- Non-fixed Patch size with 4x4 regions
- External Mask bit map surface
- Temporal noise reduction
- New Bilateral Filter as Spatial Filter
- Improved TNR3 algorithm
- Surface transform processing
- Surface transformation: Flip/Rotation/Mirror
Scaling and filtering: - - - - 1, 2, 5, or 10-tap polyphase filters
- Programmable filter coefficients
1/32 sub-pixel precision Linear interpolation for filter-type (detail/noise/normal) and scale ratio (1:1, 2:1, 4:1, 8:1, 16:1) Sub-picture and normal mode for display subtitles as well as menu buttons. -
- Filter override mode with exact filter kernel for the first five slots
- Panoramic scaling for different aspect ratios image conversion
- Detail filter clamping to avoid large ghosting effect
- Sub-pixel source rectangles to smoothly zoom into image portion
- Pixel Format Processing
- Surface format conversion: Example: Pitch Linear -> Block Linear
- Programmable GOB height
- Extensive pixel format support
- - - - - -
- Component number: T_L8 / T_Y8___U8V8
- Color space: AYUV or ARGB
- Bit depths of 8, 10, 12, or 16-bit
- Chroma formats: YUV420, YUV422, or YUV444
- Color gamuts: Rec.2020, Rec.709, or sRGB
- Memory layouts: Planar or Semi-planar
- Pixel format conversion
- - - - - 4x3 matrix multiplication conversion with soft clamping; Example: RGB -> YUV
- Color space conversion; Example: REC2020 -> REC709 -> sRGB
- Different sub-sampled chroma location; Example: (1/2, 1/2) or (0, 1/2)
- Data size conversion with MSB bits replication: RGB565 -> RGB888
2-tap or 5-tap chroma upsampling filtering
- Color correct processing
-
- YUV Scaling occurs in linear space

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- -
- Fixed lookup table based de-gamma and re-gamma support
16-bit internal data precision: S1.14 (one sign bit, one range bit, 14 fractional bits)
- Video Quality Improvement and Video Edit Tool
- De-interlacing with DiSi1, BOB, and WEAVE modes for interlaced video playback cases
- Inverse telecine with 3:2 pull down from 29.97 fps to 24 fps
- Cadence detection
- Temporal noise reduction for low-end YUV USB camera
- Luma keying with the programmable range to extract the region of interest
- Blenders and Compositor
- Maximum resolution 16384x16384 is supported
16 slots for multiple-stream composition, for example Blu-Ray content
- Eight clear rectangles
- Parameterized blender interface enables a variety of blending modes
- Color Filling the output surface with a programmable background color
#### 7.3.1.1 Use Cases
The VIC key use cases can be put into three main categories: Geometry Processing, 2D operations, and Video Post-processing operations.
##### 7.3.1.1.1 Geometry Processing for Lens Distortion Correction
VIC can perform lens distortion correction on fisheye sensors and other wide field-of-view lenses. VIC can also do stereo rectification on input stereo lens frames.
##### 7.3.1.1.2 2D Operations for UI Composition
VIC can do multi-surface composition and blending for a UI, so that VIC can be used instead of the GPU in some use cases.
##### 7.3.1.1.3 Camera Still and Video Capture
An example data flow diagram for camera use cases is referenced in the data flow diagram. Downscale and rotate still of video images for generating preview images. Crop, upscale, and rotate still of video images for digital zoom previews. Stabilize video by providing slight upscaling and cropping of an incoming video stream.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
**Figure 7.48 Camera Data Flow Diagram**
#### 7.3.1.2 Hardware Description
VIC hardware is composed of two parts: the Compositor and the LDC_TNR Geometry-transformer.
##### 7.3.1.2.1 Compositor
The Host Interface (THI) handles incoming methods from the Host Controller Bus and passes those methods to the embedded Falcon microcontroller, in addition to handling sync points. The Falcon Microcontroller is used for the host interaction (methods, context switches), controls the hardware via config space, and handles the interrupt from hardware logic. Some of the actions are:
- The AXI Frame Buffer Interface (AFBIF) handles memory read and write requests and returns
the data to the clients. The Fetch Control unit calculates the fetch region of the input surface and sends requests to the Surface Cache. The Surface Cache handles different input surface overfetch, does the internal pixel format conversion, and feeds the pixel data into the hardware pipeline.
- YUV chroma up-sampler, YUV -> RGB, Degamma, Gamut remap, Regamma, RGB -> YUV, and
- Chroma down sampler modules work together to handle different pixel formats and color
spaces. Y-scaler and X-scaler handles scale down or scale up between the input image surface and output image surface with programmable interpolation filter length. The Blender module blends all input surfaces with tile-by-tile scheme and 16 slot capabilities. SMEM works as one shared memory among submodules in Blender and LDC IP.
- Cadence detect, TNR DI statistics, and de-interlacer handle converting interlace video
content to the progressive video content via the advanced algorithm, legacy temporal noise reduction, and inverse telecine operation.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.2.2 LDC/TNR3
- The LDC/TNR3 IP shares the same THI, Falcon, AFBIF, Surface Cache, and SMEM with the
Compositor. Some of the actions are:
- The NCFG module broadcasts all register configurations to all modules and kicks-off to the
hardware pipeline.
- The TileGen module handles tile64x16 vertical traversal, mask bitmap surface reading, and
TNR3 input surface fetching.
- The IPT module does on-the-fly control point calculations for the inverse perspective
transform mode. The PosGen module does position interpolation from sparse warp map to full warp map.
- The BBPF does bounding box calculations with the input position information from PosGen,
and sends the data fetch requests to Surface Cache.
- PixelGen and LSCALAR modules work together to do sub-pixel interpolation with high
throughput.
- The TNR3 module provides spatial bilateral filter and enhanced temporal noise reduction
filter.
- The OutGen module outputs pixel data into the external memory via three channels of DMA
for different pixel formats and memory layout. The PP module does xsobel filter and 4x4 box down sample output for rectification cases.
##### 7.3.1.2.3 Configurable Surface Cache Dimensions
VIC exposes a configurable logical cache line size to software for each input slot. Because the cache height and width dimensions is chosen independent of the surface data memory layout, the 256 bytes of data fetched into the surface cache entry may not be found in contiguous memory. For example, if a cache entry is programmed to logically represent 64x4 bytes of pixel data, and the source data is fetched from a pitch linear surface, then the data needs to be fetched from four non-contiguous 64-byte segments of memory. While a single cache line may now include data from as many as four non-contiguous segments of memory, the tag for each Surface Cache entry continues to point to the data located at the top left corner of the pixels contents within the cache line. The logical width and height of each surface cache entry can now represent pixel data in the following configurations: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 256x1 bytes 128x2 bytes 64x4 bytes 32x8 bytes 16x16 bytes

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- When programming the logical cache height and width, the dimensions should be chosen to
minimize over-fetch based on the function for which the data is used (e.g., de-interlacing, scaling with various numbers of tap filters, etc.). The logical cache height should be chosen to be a multiple of the source surface memory layout height given the memory system fetch atom height, and similarly, the logical cache width should be chosen to be a multiple of the source surface memory layout width given the memory system fetch atom width. The table below summarizes these requirements.
- Table 7.54 Programmable Surface Cache Dimensions
- Logical cache-line
dimensions
- Buffer width
restriction
- Luma/Chroma height
restriction
- Cache width
(as programmed in
- ConfigStruct)
16Bx16
- Multiple of 16B
- Multiple of 16 lines
32Bx8
- Multiple of 32B
- Multiple of 8 lines
64Bx4
- Multiple of 64B
- Multiple of 4 lines
128Bx2
- Multiple of 128B
- Multiple of 2 lines
256Bx1
- Multiple of 256B
N/A For the VIC pre-process pass (noise reduction, motion adaptation values, cadence detection, etc.), the hardware has to fetch 16Bx16 sections of memory and the cache width is forced to 0 by the Falcon (only for the pre-process pass). Using pitch linear buffers for surfaces that require pre- processing is therefore strongly discouraged.
##### 7.3.1.2.4 Maximum Surface and Rectangle Size Support
VIC supports surface and rectangle sizes up to 16384x16384 pixels. All configurable surface width and height parameters, and configurable rectangle dimensions in the Fetch Control, Surface List, and Output Buffer, support up to 16384x16384 surfaces and rectangles. All related fields in the ConfigStruct and associated registers are 14 bits to support this.
#### 7.3.1.3 Pixel Format Conversion
##### 7.3.1.3.1 Memory Format Support
- The following memory formats are supported on input and output. Note that input and output
memory formats do not have to match. 1. 2. 3. 4.
- Pitch Linear
- Block Linear (16Bx2 kind with sector ordering)
64x8 byte Gob format with 16x2 byte sectors
- Contiguous 64B atoms are laid out as 32x2 byte blocks

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Note: Refer to the Pixel Memory Formats chapter for more details.
- The VIC Surface Cache supports the above memory formats on input when fetching pixel data
from memory. The VIC Output Buffer supports the above memory formats on input when reading background image data, when pre-processing inverse telecine data from memory, and on the output side when writing composited image data back to memory. Memory formats supported by VIC are enumerated as follows:
- Table 7.55 Memory Format Enumerations
- Surface Kind Enumeration
- Encoding (four bits)
- BLK_KIND_PITCH
0x0
- BLK_KIND_GENERIC_16Bx2_TEGRA
0x1 To fully support the Block Linear format, block height should be programmable to any one of the following set of enumerations.
- Table 7.56 Block Height Enumerations
- Block Height Enumeration
- Value
- Encoding (four bits, log2 encoding)
- ONE_GOB
- TWO_GOBS
- FOUR_GOBS
- EIGHT_GOBS
- SIXTEEN_GOBS
- THIRTYTWO_GOBS
##### 7.3.1.3.2 Pixel Format Support
The VIC pipeline supports a large number of pixel formats. The VIC pipeline accepts a surface of a given input pixel format and produces a given output pixel format. The following table lists all the pixel formats supported in VIC and any restrictions on their usage. The symbols in color conversion mode column describe the internal VIC representation of the format, (e.g., 1P_1C represents one plane with one component pixels, 2P_1+2C represents two planes, one plane with one component pixels, and a second plane with two component pixels).

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Table 7.57 Pixel Format Support
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_L8/ T_Y8/ T_YUV100 Y Y Y Y N N T_A4L4 Y Y Y Y N N T_L4A4 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8L8 Y Y Y Y N N T_L8A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_L16 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8G8 Y Y Y Y N N T_G8R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G6R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G6B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B6G5R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G5B6 Y Y Y Y N N T_A1B5G5R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_A1R5G5B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G5R5A1 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G5B5A1 Y Y Y Y N N T_A5B5G5R1 Y Y Y Y N N T_A5R1G5B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G5R1A5 Y Y Y Y N N T_R1G5B5A5 Y Y Y Y N N T_X1B5G5R5 Y Y Y Y N N T_X1R5G5B5 Y Y Y Y N N T_B5G5R5X1 Y Y Y Y N N T_R5G5B5X1 Y Y Y Y N N T_A4B4G4R4 Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_A4R4G4B4 Y Y Y Y N N T_B4G4R4A4 Y Y Y Y N N T_R4G4B4A4 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8B8G8R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8R8G8B8 Y Y Y Y N N T_B8G8R8A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8G8B8A8 Y Y Y Y N N T_X8B8G8R8 Y Y Y Y N N T_X8R8G8B8 Y Y Y Y N N T_B8G8R8X8 Y Y Y Y N N T_R8G8B8X8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A2B10G10R10 Y Y Y Y N N T_A2R10G10B10 Y Y Y Y N N T_B10G10R10A2 Y Y Y Y N N T_R10G10B10A2 Y Y Y Y N N T_A16B16G16R16 Y Y Y Y N N T_A4P4 Y N Y Y N N T_P4A4 Y N Y Y N N T_P8A8 Y N Y Y N N T_A8P8 Y N Y Y N N T_P8 Y N Y Y N N T_P1 Y N Y Y N N T_U8V8 Y Y Y Y N N T_V8U8 Y Y Y Y N N T_A8Y8U8V8 (AYUV444 packed) Y Y Y Y N N T_V8U8Y8A8 (AYUV444 packed) Y Y Y Y N N T_A16Y16U16V16 Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8 (YUV422 packed)
- YUY2/YUYV
Y Y Y Y Y Y T_Y8_V8__Y8_U8 (YUV422 packed)
- YVYU
Y Y Y Y N N T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8 (YUV422 packed)
- UYVY
Y Y Y Y Y Y T_V8_Y8__U8_Y8 (YUV422 packed) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) e.g., NV61 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) e.g., NV16 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___U8V8_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) e.g., NV21 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) e.g., NV12 Y Y Y Y Y Y T_Y8__U8__V8_N444 (YUV444 planar)** e.g., YV24 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8__U8__V8_N422 (YUV422 planar)** e.g., YV16 Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8__U8__V8_N422R (YUV422R planar) ** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y8__U8__V8_N420 (YUV420 planar) ** e.g., YV12 Y Y Y Y Y Y T_Y10___U10V10_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___V10U10_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___U10V10_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_Y10___V10U10_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___U10V10_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___V10U10_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___U10V10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10___V10U10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N Y T_Y10__U10__V10_N444 (YUV444 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10__U10__V10_N422 (YUV422 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10__U10__V10_N422R (YUV422R planar) ** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y10__U10__V10_N420 (YUV420 planar) ** Y Y Y Y N Y T_Y12___U12V12_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N444 (YUV444 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___U12V12_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N422 (YUV422 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___U12V12_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N422R (YUV422R semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___U12V12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12___V12U12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Y Y Y Y N Y*** T_Y12__U12__V12_N444 (YUV444 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N T_Y12__U12__V12_N422 (YUV422 planar)** Y Y Y Y N N

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- TNR/
- TNR2
- Pixel Format
- FOURCC
- Input
- Support
- Output
- Support
- Rotatio
n
- Scaling
- High Quality
- De-
interlacing T_Y12__U12__V12_N422R (YUV422R planar) ** Y Y Y Y N N
- DiSi1 de-interlacing only works on NV24 surfaces and field-based variants of NV12, YV12, YUY2,
and UYVY formats (with each field stored in a separate surface).
- * VIC has support for three independent surface pointers for each of the input slots and output
surfaces, one each for luma, chroma-u, and chroma-v.
- ** 12-bit YUV pixel formats are supported for the TNR pass with only read/write support with no
increase in the internal pipeline width. The pixels therefore are truncated to 10-bit precision before and after processing.
- ** 12-bit YUV pixel formats for the composition pass are processed using the existing 14-bit
fractional precision pipeline. This means it does not accurately de-gamma these higher precision pixel formats. In the color format, the notation called "A:B:C" is used to describe how often U and V are sampled relative to Y. 444 (4:4:4) means no down sampling of the chroma channels. 422 (4:2:2) means 2:1 horizontal down sampling, with no vertical down sampling. Every scan line contains four Y samples for every two U and V sample pairs. 420 (4:2:0) means 2:1 horizontal down sampling, with 2:1 vertical down sampling. R refers to rotated. 422 by default means horizontal down sampling; while 422R means vertical down sampling. Instead of the chroma being shared between two horizontally adjacent luma components, it's shared between two vertically adjacent luma components. Note: VIC does not support 24-bit color formats, either RGB or YUV.
##### 7.3.1.3.3 Pixel Format Conversion
Color conversion (CC) and proc-amp are implemented using a matrix multiplication on every pixel. The matrix only changes when the surfaces changes. Current chain of operations:
- Proc-amp + Output CC (4x3 matrix)
- Clamping (optional soft clamping, two control entry)
1. 2. The 4x3 matrix values are specified in the MatrixStruct as S12.8 values. In addition, the result of the matrix multiplication is right shifted by r_shift. To allow for highest accuracy, r_shift should always be as high as possible without losing any range in the other coefficients. Note that the constant offsets (c03, c13, c23) are S12.8 and are not affected by r_shift.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Soft clamping defines a piece-wise linear function consisting of three pieces. The control entries define the area of soft clamping, i.e., for the values a and b we get the following pseudo-code: if (v < -a) v' = 0 else if (-a <= v < a) v' = (v+a)/2 else if (a <= v < b) v' = v else if (b <= v < (2-b)) v' = (v+b)/2 else if ((2-b) <= v) v' = 1 When converting between pixel formats with components of varying bit width, bit replication is used for expanding component bit widths, and truncation is used for reducing component bit widths. Note: Dithering and un-dithering is not supported.
- Handling Sub-sampled Chroma Formats
- The chroma location for pixel formats with sub-sampled chroma can be specified using the
- ChromaLocHoriz and ChromaLocVert parameters in the VIC config structure. Each of these
parameters can take values 0, 1, or 2 representing a chroma location as listed in the table below.
- Table 7.58 Example Chroma Location
- ChromaLoc
- Chroma Position
- Co-sited with even luma values
- Mid-way between even and odd luma values
- Co-sited with odd luma values
- Table 7.59 Example ChromaLoc Values
- Format
- ChromaLocHoriz
- ChromaLocVert
- Comment
4:4:4
- Don't Care
- Don't Care
- Not sub-sampled
4:2:2 – BT601
- Don't Care
4:2:0 – MPEG1 4:2:0 – MPEG2

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Data Size Conversion
- When expanding the number of bits in a component (e.g., from RGB565 to RGB888), expansion
should use bit replication of the MSBs of the original value to fill in the LSBs of the expanded bit length value. For example, if converting from a 5-bit value to 8-bit value, the first three MSBs of the source 5-bit value are concatenated as the three new LSBs to the original 5-bit value to produce the new expanded 8-bit value. e.g., 5-bit R5 = 11000'b expanded to 8 bit R8 = 11000110'b When reducing the number of bits in a component (e.g., from RGB888 to RGB565), the LSBs of the old value are truncated to arrive at the shortened value. e.g., 8-bit R8 = 11000000'b reduced to 5 bit R5 = 11000'b Replication followed by truncation ensures that the truncated value equals the original pre- replicated operand, i.e., RGB565 -> RGB888 expansion followed immediately by RGB888 -> RGB565 reduction results in the same original value.
- Luminance Conversion
Conversion from luminance-only color formats (e.g., L8/Y8/YUV100, A8L8, etc.) to and from RGB or YUV formats should be done as outlined below.
- Luminance-only to YUV
L -> Y, 128 -> U, 128 -> V
- Luminance-only to RGB
L -> R, L -> G, L -> B
- YUV to Luminance-only
Y -> L
- Clamp L between 0.0 and 1.0
- RGB to Luminance-only
(R*5 + G*9 + B*2)/16 -> L
- Clamp L between 0.0 and 1.0
- Adding and Removing Alpha
If converting from a pixel format with alpha to a pixel format with no alpha, the alpha value is dropped. If converting from a pixel format with no alpha to a pixel format with alpha, the alpha value in the destination pixel format should be set to 1.0.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.3.4 Chroma Upsampling
- VIC implements a fixed function YUV chroma up-sampling that allows pixel formats with sub-
sampled chroma to be up-sampled to YUV444 right at the beginning of the pipeline, allowing them to be converted to RGB, passed through de-gamma and then sent through the scaling/blending pipelines just like other RGB formats. This feature is required to be able to scale YUV surfaces in linear space. The up-sampling block supports both 2-tap and 5-tap up-sampling modes. It supports both a two component/pixel (UV plane) mode, as well as a one component/pixel mode (U plane or V plane). Any other mode that does not require chroma up-sampling is passed through the pipeline untouched. 5-tap mode is recommended for high-quality video use-cases.
##### 7.3.1.3.5 Color Correct Processing
VIC processes colors "correctly," meaning that it follows industry-standard guidelines when doing image processing like scaling, compositing, etc. In particular, all linear operations like scaling and blending are done in the linear pixel space after correcting for any non-linear gamma inputs.
- Full Degamma/Regamma Support
VIC has full support for reading, writing, and processing gamma space color space pixels. This means that VIC puts pixels through a degamma logic shortly after they are read; pixel processing including scaling, gamut mapping, and blending then happen in the linear color space, and there is a regamma conversion to convert pixels back into the gamma space before they are written out.
- Since VIC has to process different types of content, each of which might be encoded with a
different gamma, the degamma logic allows software to program the parameters of the gamma equation into the VIC config structure as necessary. Similarly, the output regamma logic implemented in a programmable fashion so that software can choose the output gamma space as necessary.
##### 7.3.1.3.6 Surface Transform Processing
- Surface Transformation
The blend unit is responsible for generating the destination surface addressing that implements mirroring (across X-axis and/or Y-axis) of tiles within the Target rectangle of the output surface. The output buffer implements the ability to mirror pixels in the X and Y directions within each output tile. This ability, in addition to the fetch control changes mentioned above, give VIC the ability to flip the contents of the entire Target rectangle about its axis.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
The output buffer also implements the hardware necessary to support transposition of the Target Rectangle. This ability, when combined with the target rectangle flips described above, gives VIC the ability to rotate images by any multiple of 90 degrees. Rotation must be done in the pipeline after de-interlacing because the de-interlacer assumes a normal orientation of the input fields (interlaced field lines run horizontal). Rotation of the image prior to de-interlacing makes the de-interlacer ineffective.
**Figure 7.49 Interlaced Field Lines Run Horizontally**
The programmed starting address of the source and destination rectangles remain at the upper left corner of the unit. The Source Image diagrammed below shows the logical tile traversal pattern as the input rectangle traverses the VIC unit (tiles are read in raster order from left to right, then top to bottom). The destination rectangle diagrammed below shows the expected transformations when the programmer specifies the combination of flipX, flipY, and transposeXY transformations available to be applied to the output rectangle.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
**Figure 7.50 Surface Transformation Orientations**
- Table 7.60 Output Buffer Surface Transformation Controls
- Transformation
transposeXY flipY flipX
- Normal (no transformation)
H flip (mirror on vertical axis) V flip (mirror on horizontal axis) 180-degree rotation
- Mirror on 315-degree axis
270-degree rotation 90-degree rotation
- Mirror on 45-degree axis

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Surface mirroring (FlipX/FlipY) is accomplished via programming of the OutputConfig structure.
- Surface transposition is accomplished via programming of the OutputTranspose field of the
OutputConfig structure. The results of the transformations are summarized in the rules below. 1.
- The output surface parameters (SurfaceWidth/Height, LumaWidth/Height, and
- ChromaWidth/Height) are transposed when output transpose is enabled. This means that if
the target rectangle/destination rectangles fit within the output surface before transformation, they also fit within the output surface after all transformations are done. The position of the target rectangle in the output surface gets flipped or transposed along with all of its contents (clear rectangles and destination rectangles) when OutputFlipX/ OutputFlipY/OutputTranspose are enabled.
- When output flips are enabled, the entire contents of the target rectangle are flipped,
including all ClearRects and DestinationRects and their contents. The axis of the flip is the axis of the output surface.
- When OutputTranspose is enabled, the position of the target rectangle is transposed, as
does its contents (including all clear/destination rectangles).
- When transpose and flips are enabled together, the overall effect of the transformation
happens as if the flip operations occur first, followed by the transpose operation. 2. 3. 4. 5.
- Scaling and Filtering
The VIC contains Y and X-scaler units that together allow 5 or 10 tap polyphase filtering and scaling of the input surface. The hardware is programmed with a set of filter coefficients for each filter-type (Detail/Noise/Normal), phase (0,1/32,2/32, .. 32/32), scale ratio (1:1, 2:1, 4:1, 8:1, 16:1), filter length (5-tap, 10-tap) and stream (sub-picture or normal). Based on the actual scale-ratio, phase etc. the hardware can then interpolate between these programmed values for use in the actual filters. There are four filter types (5 tap non-substream, 5 tap substream, and 10 tap non-substream, 10 tap substream). Therefore there are five tables for each coefficient type, as well as different tables for different scale down ratio of 1:1, 2:1, 4:1, 8:1, and 16:1. This means there are a total of 20 tables and that the maximum downscale ratio is 16:1. Each table has 16x4 memory entries (for 5-tap filter) or 16x9 memory entries (for 10-tap filter). Each memory entry has three 10-bit base coefficients (for Detail/Noise/Default) that are feed into a LERP3 simultaneously to interpolate based on different noise and detail weight. The table has 16 columns, and each column stores all the coefficients for phase 0/32, 1/32, 2/32, 3/32, 4/32, 5/32, 6/32, 7/32, 8/32, 9/32, 10/32, 11/32, 12/32, 13/32, 14/32, and 15/32, with the exception that the first column stores coefficients for both 0/32 and 16/32. Each column stores four sets of base coefficients for 5-tap filter because the last coefficient can be derived from the remaining four. Phase 0/32 and 16/32 are special cases in that only two sets of base coefficients are needed for each of them in 5-tap case and only four sets of base coefficients are needed for phase 0/32 in 10-tap case and five sets of base coefficients are needed for phase

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
16/32 in 10-tap case. Therefore, phase 0/32 and 16/32 are folded into the same column. Due to symmetry, we don't need to store base coefficients for phases 17 through 31. VIC also implements 1-tap (nearest-neighbor) and 2-tap (bi-linear) filtering modes. These modes can be used when power and bandwidth are of greater concern than quality. The 1- and 2-tap modes use filter coefficients that are based only on the output pixel phase with respect to the input pixel grid, and do not use the programmable coefficient tables at all. As a result, it doesn't make sense to enable Detail Filtering or Noise Filtering when using these modes.
- Subpixel Source Rectangles
VIC has the ability to specify source rectangles to a sub-pixel resolution. This feature is used in cases requiring a smooth zoom into a portion of an image in real-time, for example when using the zoom button on a camera.
##### 7.3.1.3.7 Video Quality Improve
- De-interlacing
The VIC supports various modes of de-interlacing the input video content such as DiSi1, BOB, and WEAVE. Weave is only used on progressive content or in case inverse telecine detected a cadence.
##### 7.3.1.3.8 Temporal Noise Reduction
- TNR1
VIC has a temporal noise reduction (TNR) algorithm based on a motion adaptive IIR filter, where the filter weight was adapted based on a few constants and the SOS difference between a 3x3 neighborhood of pixels around the current pixel in the current and previous frames. SOS = sum_of_squared_differences between current and prev frame in 3x3 neighborhood.
- If (!denoise || (sos >> (20-deblur_const))!=0) {
alpha = 0; } else { alpha = min(1024, iir - ((iir * sos) >> (20-deblur_const))); } mul = hdr? max(0, min(1024, ((c * hdrm)>>10) + hdrb)) : 1024; alpha = (alpha * mul) >> 10; diffc = fc - c; dc = diffc * diffc; ad = max(4, abs(dc) * ac); max_alpha = la ? 1024 - 4096/ad : 1024;

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
alpha = min(alpha, max_alpha); out = ((alpha * diffc)>>10) + c; The pixel differences calculated in the above algorithm can be written out as a motion-adaptation buffer to memory for use in the motion-adaptive de-interlacing algorithm (DiSi1).
##### 7.3.1.3.9 Blender
- Blender Configuration
The blender API allows for symmetric blend modes between the VIC and Display units. The VIC blender supports the following different blending modes:
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_OPAQUE
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_BACKGROUND
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_DESTINATION
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED
- DXVAHD_ALPHA_FILL_MODE_SOURCE_ALPHA
- All modes other than _ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED are as defined in the Microsoft DirectX
Video Acceleration 2.0 Enhanced Video Processor specification (DXVA). The mode that allows the VIC and Display blenders to match each other is enabled by setting the AlphaFillMode in the
- OutputConfig structure to _ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED. When the AlphaFillMode is set to
anything other than _ALPHA_FILL_MODE_COMPOSITED, the srcFact and dstFact parameters specified below are ignored and do not affect the processing. The parameterizable blender interface allows a variety of blend modes, including the following:
- Per-Pixel Non-Premultiplied Alpha Blend output = src*src_alpha + dst*(1-src_alpha)
- Per Pixel Source Premultiplied Alpha Blend output = src + dst*(1-src_alpha)
- Constant-Alpha Blend output = src*const_alpha + dst*(1-const_alpha)
- Per-Pixel Non-Premultiplied Alpha Blend with constant blend output =
src*src_alpha*const_alpha + dst*(1-src_alpha*const_alpha)
- Per-Pixel Premultiplied Alpha Blend with constant blend output = src*const_alpha + dst*(1-
src_alpha*const_alpha) Note that color-key is not supported and the following text should be read keeping in mind that ColorKeySelect should always be set to disabled. The blend data path requires the color key comparison match the result, and per-slot inputs from the config structure to formulate the blend equation. srcFactC, srcFactA, dstFactC, and dstFactA multiplicand inputs are determined by the config structure programming and color key comparison results.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Table 7.61 Per-slot Blend Configuration
- Blend Spec Name
- Register Name
- Description
- K1
- AlphaK1
8-bit constant alpha value
- K2
- AlphaK2
8-bit constant alpha value srcFactC_Match_Select srcFactCMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets srcFactC:
- K1: AlphaK1
- K1_TIMES_DST: AlphaK1*dstA
- NEG_K1_TIMES_DST: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*dstA)
- K1_TIMES_SRC: AlphaK1*srcA
- ZERO: 0
dstFactC_Match_Select dstFactCMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets dstFactC:
- K1: AlphaK1
- K2: AlphaK2
- K1_TIMES_DST: AlphaK1*dstA
- NEG_K1_TIMES_DST: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*dstA)
- NEG_K1_TIMES_SRC: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*srcA)
- ZERO: 0
- ONE: 1.0
srcFactA_Match_Select srcFactAMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets srcFactA:
- K1: AlphaK1
- K2: AlphaK2
- ZERO: 0
- NEG_K1_TIMES_DST: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*dstA) dstFactA_Match_Select dstFactAMatchSelect 3-bit enum which sets dstFactA:
- K2: AlphaK2
- NEG_K1_TIMES_SRC: 1.0-
(AlphaK1*srcA)
- ZERO: 0
- ONE: 1.0
- UseK3
- UseOverrideR
1-bit boolean to override srcR with constant values K3R
- UseK3
- UseOverrideG
1-bit boolean to override srcG with constant values K3G
- UseK3
- UseOverrideB
1-bit boolean to override srcB with constant values K3B
- UseK3
- UseOverrideA
1-bit boolean to override srcA with constant values K3A
- K3R
- OverrideR
10-bit source override R value
- K3G
- OverrideG
10-bit source override G value

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Blend Spec Name
- Register Name
- Description
- K3B
- OverrideB
10-bit source override B value
- K3A
- OverrideA
10-bit source override A value
- MaskR
- MaskR
1-bit boolean to override outputR to equal dstR
- MaskG
- MaskG
1-bit boolean to override outputG to equal dstG
- MaskB
- MaskB
1-bit boolean to override outputB to equal dstB
- MaskA
- MaskA
1-bit boolean to override outputA to equal dstA Given the source and destination factor settings based on config structure inputs and color match results, the per-pixel blend equations are as follows, where srcR, srcG, srcB, srcA, dstR, dstG, dstB, and dstA represent the incoming R, G, B, and A components of the incoming source and already present destination pixels in the SFMem buffer (blended results of background and slot[0] through to slot[n-1] for input slot[n]). outputR = (srcFactC * srcR) + (dstFactC * dstR) outputG = (srcFactC * srcG) + (dstFactC * dstG) outputB = (srcFactC * srcB) + (dstFactC * dstB) outputA = (srcFactA * srcA) + (dstFactA * dstA) srcFactC, srcFactA, dstFactC, and dstFactA are programmed by srcFactCMatchSelect, srcFactCMatchSelect, srcFactCMatchSelect, and srcFactCMatchSelect respectively.
- UseK3 allows the incoming source components to be overridden by constant color components
K3R, K3G, K3B, and K3A.
- MaskR, MaskG, MaskB, and MaskA boolean settings provide additional per-component mask bits
to allow pass-through of the destination pixel components to the output pixel. A programmable background color can still be set to fill the target rectangle background via the OutputConfig structure. The programmed background color should follow these rules: The background color is programmed in the same color space as the blending color space. For example, if the blending is happening in an RGB color space, then the background color is treated as an ARGB value. If the blending happens in a YUV color space, the background color is treated as an AYUV value. Similarly, if the blending happens in a linear color space, the background color is treated as a linear color space value. If the blending is in non-linear space, then the background color is also expected to be non-linear.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.3.10 Surface Composition
**Figure 7.51 Programming Input and Output Surface Parameters**
The maximum dimension of any image on the input or output sides of the VIC is 16384 pixels. The dimensions of each input slot surface can be defined along with the pixel and memory format types in the VIC Config Structure. A source rectangle defines the region of pixels of the input slot surface that contributes to the composition of the output surface, and a destination rectangle defines the region of the output surface that is affected by a given input slot. Together, the source and destination rectangle parameters specify the scaling ratios desired. Each slot can also dictate how pixel data is laid out in each surface cache entry by specifying the amount of pixel data, i.e., the number of bytes wide, logically represented by each cache entry; this provides flexibility in reducing the memory over fetch associated with fetch of surfaces under various use cases (e.g., scaling ratios, de-interlacing modes, etc.).

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
Via the OutputConfig structure, the dimensions of the output surface can be defined along with the pixel and memory format types. The same structure also defines a target rectangle to restrict the pixel processing output to a certain rectangle in the output surface. A programmable color can also be set to fill the background of the target rectangle. The VIC allows the programming of clear rectangles that prevent the fetch of pixels from specific rectangular regions of input slots. The use of the clear rectangles can be used to reduce redundant pixel fetches, for example, if an opaque surface is known to occlude a layer below it, a clear rectangle can be specified to prevent fetching of pixels from the occluded region of the lower layer. Up to eight clear rectangles are specified via the ClearRectStruct structs, and per-slot clear rectangle mask enables are specified via the SlotConfig struct. Clear rectangles are specified relative to the output surface coordinate system. With the addition of the sub-pixel source rectangle feature, source rectangle coordinates are specified in the config structure in a U14.16 format, allowing us to specify the source rectangle at a sub-pixel resolution. Destination, target, and clear rectangles coordinates are pixel aligned.
#### 7.3.1.4 Geometry Transform Processing
##### 7.3.1.4.1 SubFeature List
- Four pixel/clock throughput
16-bit input pixel format
- Full warp map capability
- Uniform spaced sparse warp map
- Programmable nine control points spline patch
- Non-fixed patch size
4x4 bicubic pixel interpolation filter
- Out-of-the-bound check via MaskBitMap
- On-the-fly inverse perspective transform only support
- Sub-frame level processing
- Xsobel and 4x4 downsample
- Table 7.62 Supported Pixel Format
- Enumerant
- Value
T_R8 T_Y8___V8U8_N444 T_Y8___V8U8_N422 T_Y8___V8U8_N420 T_R16

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- Enumerant
- Value
T_Y16___V16U16_N444 T_Y16___V16U16_N422 T_Y16___V16U16_N420 T_Y10___V10U10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y12___V12U12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) Note: Output format is always same as input format.
- Table 7.63 Surface Memory Format
- Surface Name
- Value
- Pixel image surface
- Pitch Linear / Block Linear (16x2)
- Programmable GOB height
- Sparse Warp Map Surface MAP_XY
- Pitch Linear, X/Y Interleaved, S15.5 precision, and 8 bytes per control points
- MskBitMap Surface
- Tile64x16 Linear
- Pixel interpolation coefficient surface
- Linear
- XSobel Gradient surface
- Block Linear (16x2) / Pitch Linear
- Xsobel 4x4 downsample surface
- Block Linear (16x2) / Pitch Linear
- Xsobel Neighbor surface
- Internal work buffer
MskBitMap Surface stores in Tile64x16 the linear format.
- Linear array: bool MskBitMap[ y*stride + x ]
Tile64x16 linear array: bool MskBitMap[ ( (y/16) * (stride/64) + (x/64)) * (64x16) + (y%16) * 64 + x%64] For one tile 64x16, it costs the address-continuous 128Bytes to store the mask bit information. Control point format in memory:
**Figure 7.52 Control Point Format**

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.4.2 Temporal Noise Reduction
Processing video to reduce noise can significantly improve the quality. A low complexity Motion- adaptive Temporal filtering noise reduction mechanism which also adapts to video content and ambient lighting conditions is described here.
- Table 7.64 TNR Feature List
- Feature
- Change from Parker
4 Pixel/clock throughput
- New
- Bilateral Spatial Filter
- New
- Pixel-wise SAD calculation
- Changed
- Improved SAD-alpha curve
- Changed
- Temporal alpha restrict
- New
- Non-temporal beta blending
- Changed
- Flexible alpha clip for luma and chroma
- Changed
- Flexible alpha-beta curve
- Changed
- Register-level programming
- Changed
- Sub-frame level processing
- New
- Merged LDC_TNR in one pass
- New
- TNR bypass mode
- New
- Table 7.65 Supported Pixel Formats
- Enumerant
- Value
T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8 (YUV422 packed) (YUY2/YUYV) T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8 (YUV422 packed) (UYVY) T_Y8___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y8__U8__V8_N420 (YUV420 planar, YV12) T_Y10___V10U10_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y10__U10__V10_N420 (YUV420 planar) T_Y12___V12U12_N420 (YUV420 semi-planar) T_Y12__U12__V12_N420 (YUV420 planar) Notes:

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
1. Output format is always same as input format 2. T_Y8__U8__V8_N420 is equal to YV12
- Table 7.66 Surface Memory Format
- Surface Name
- Value
- Pixel image surface
- Pitch Linear / Block Linear (16x2)
- Programmable GOB height
- TNR alpha, top and left data
- Internal work buffer
##### 7.3.1.4.3 16-bit New Pixel Format Scale
Scaling support in the CV pipeline requires 16-bit data format support throughout the VIC scaling pipeline. VIC is used to crop the ROI from the original wide camera to get the DLA network input resolution. For example: 960x540@540fps-Y16 -> VIC -> 224x224@540-Y16 -> DLA (downscale) 192x108@1080fps-Y16 -> VIC -> 224x224@1080-Y16 -> DLA (upscale)
- SubFeature List
16-bit input pixel format
- Internal data-path precision promotion
#### 7.3.1.5 Power Management
In the SoC, VIC is spread over two layout partitions namely VICA and VICB, but all of it belongs to a single PG domain VIC.
##### 7.3.1.5.1 Clock Gating Requirements
- Hierarchical Clock Gating
VIC supports clock gating. First-level clock gating (FLCG) refers to clock gating of the top-level VIC_CLK clock input into the VIC unit which is controlled by software. First-level clock gating can be enabled by software to reduce power when VIC is inactive. Second-level clock gating (SLCG) refers to clock gating of individual portions of the VIC pipeline, controlled by the VIC hardware, with software overrides. When each frame completes, no further work is pending in the method stream and all portions of the VIC pipeline are idle, then each major portion of the VIC pipeline is clock gated automatically by the hardware.

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
A block-level clock gating (BLCG) controller monitors vic_idle (idling of all logic in the vic_clk domain). When vic_clk logic is idle, the vic_clk clk_en signal to CAR is deasserted, automatically disabling the vic_clk at the root and thus saving power in the clock tree. A free running vic_clk_nobg clock is required for the BLCG controller to work. The BLCG controller is configurable (e.g., enable, idle_delay count, wakeup delay count, etc.) via CSB registers in the VIC MISC space.
- Activity Monitor Activity Signal
The VIC does not include any direct power monitoring features. It exports an activity monitoring signal that is utilized by the DVFS software to program the VIC clock frequencies and voltages. A Per-Unit Activity Monitor (ACTMON) monitors VIC activity. The ACTMON receives an activity signal from the VIC engine, and using that information, generates an IIR average that is compared against watermark thresholds, and interrupts software whenever certain activity thresholds are exceeded.
- The ACTMON is monitored by software and aids in power management policies, such as setting
VIC's clock frequency, enabling and disabling first level clock gating, and power gating of the engine. The VIC activity sent to the ACTMON is asserted from the time that VIC first fetches a method for processing from THI, until the moment that pixel data processing completes and end of frame is asserted. Any activity within the THI either before the start of method fetch by VIC or after end of frame does not add to the accumulated VIC activity.
##### 7.3.1.5.2 Power Gating
The VIC is located in its own partition(s) which are power-gateable. VIC power-gating is enabled in LP0/LP1 states, as well as after extended periods of inactivity. When the VIC is split across multiple partitions, it is expected that all partitions are power-gated (or not) together; there is no use-case where some partitions are power-gated and other partitions are not. Software is responsible for making sure VIC is idle, saving/restoring context, reloading the Falcon firmware, and rebooting it whenever power-gating the unit.
##### 7.3.1.5.3 Power Gating Sequence
- VIC Clocks and Resets
The following are the CAR register fields associated with VIC clocks:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_VIC_0.CLK_ENB_VIC
The following are the CAR register fields associated with VIC resets:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_VIC_0.SWR_VIC_RST

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
- VIC Power Gating
1. 2.
- Enable VIC clock(s)
- Flush MC client VIC
a. Set the MC register bit:
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0.VIC_FLUSH_ENABLE
Poll MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_0 until the following bits are set:
- VIC_HOTRESET_STATUS
b. 3.
- Apply clamps
a. b.
- Write to PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0 with CLAMP=ON
- Wait 100 ns for clamps to engage
4. 5. 6.
- Assert VIC resets
- Disable VIC clocks
- Set VIC power state to PG
a. b.
- Write PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit START==DONE
- Read PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that desired state is
reached. If there is a mismatch, flag ERROR c.
- VIC Power Ungating
1.
- Set VIC power state to ON
a. b.
- Write PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit START==DONE
- Read PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that the desired state is
reached. If there is a mismatch, flag ERROR c. 2. 3.
- Enable VIC clock(s)
- Assert VIC reset(s)
a. b.
- Write CAR register(s) specified above
- Add 2 µs delay to allow flushing of non-resettable flops
4.
- Release clamps
a. b.
- Write to PMC_IMPL_PART_VIC_CLAMP_CONTROL_0 with CLAMP=OFF
- Wait 100 ns for clamps to disengage
5. 6.
- Deassert VIC reset(s)
Enable MC client VIC by clearing the following bits: a.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_0.VIC_FLUSH_ENABLE
7. Optionally (if requested by the unit's driver), disables VIC clock(s).

- Video Image Compositor (VIC)
##### 7.3.1.5.4 Instantiate Error Collator and Hook Up Faults to HSM
To standardize the reporting and testability of fault reports to the HSM, the VIC adopts the standard Error Collator plug-ins. The VIC instantiates these plugins to collect the various safety related errors and provide two fault lines (correctable and uncorrectable) to the HSM. The errors reported to the HSM are the Falcon IMEM-ECC (correctable, uncorrectable), Falcon DMEM-Parity, Falcon firmware (correctable, uncorrectable) including timeout, and errors discovered during periodic testing.
- Table 7.67 List of VIC Error Types
- Error name
- Produced by
- Output error signal
- Falcon IMEM ECC SEC
- ECC plugin terminal
vic_fault_corrected
- Falcon IMEM ECC DED
- ECC plugin terminal
vic_fault_critical
- Falcon DMEM parity
- Parity plugin terminal
vic_fault_critical
- Falcon Software correctable Error
- Software corrected errors
vic_fault_corrected
- Falcon Software critical Error
- Software critical errors
vic_fault_critical Embedded safety within Falcon provides two ERBs (Embedded RuBys) for firmware to send fault reports. These ERBs connect to the error collator, while Falcon reports both corrected errors and critical errors detected by firmware based protection. The errors include:
- Corruption of critical configuration registers
- Internal IP hardware timeout
- Other firmware based safety errors
#### 7.3.1.6 Virtualization
Virtualization is implemented by the Host Interface (THI); the Host Interface serves as an interface between the SoC Host Controller and Falcon microcontroller(s).
- Two StreamIDs should be available for VIC engine, one (StreamID1) for internal Falcon use,
and the other (StreamID0) for VIC processing pipeline use.
- Both StreamIDs should be programmable by Host Controller RM privilege (TrustZone is
optional), but NOT by other security privileges.
- StreamID0 should be programmable by either Channel programming or MMIO, StreamID1
should be only programmable by MMIO.
- Channel Lock (CH_LOCK) should be supported, when enabled (CH_LOCK=1), push buffer
commands should NOT be allowed to access non-THI registers.

- VIC Programming Guidelines}.Body)
