# 7.5.1 Overview

@{Key=7.5.1; Title=Overview; Body=The Display Controller is based on the NVDisplay 4.0 architecture, and has changed from prior NVIDIA SoCs. The main new features of NVDisplay 4.0 architecture are DSI output, native 4:2:0 HDMI output, and support for HDMI 2.1 Fixed Rate Link mode. The MIPI DSI protocol is used in some applications. The DSI encoder is handled separately but integrated into the Display hierarchy. The DSI encoder is another form of output resource. Native 4:2:0 output supports the 2head1Or feature (both heads are combined to drive a single panel over one output resource) to drive 8K HDMI panels without DSC compression. The display processing pipeline down samples 4:4:4 pixels to 4:2:0. The HDMI 2.1 Fixed Rate Link mode increases the available HDMI link bandwidth by approximately 3x over HDMI 2.0. It also permits DSC compressed streams over HDMI. The Display Controller has two heads and four windows. A window is a single surface that can be assigned to any head. Each head supports a single cursor, which can be composited on top of all windows. There is some amount of per-window pixel processing (the precomp pipeline) and some amount of per-head pixel processing (the post-comp pipeline). There is a single shared Isochronous Memory Hub (ISO Hub) for memory access, which services all window surfaces. The output from any head can be routed to any SOR; except only head0 can be attached to DSI. There is a crossbar between each SOR to each output link. All four windows are Full windows. Full windows contain the full HDR pixel processing functionality including a precomp scaler and tone mapping.

- Display Controller
**Figure 7.53 Top-Level Block Diagram**
#### 7.5.1.1 Standards Supported
- HDMI2.1
- DP1.4a
eDP1.4
- HDCP1.3 / HDCP2.3
- HDA1.0
#### 7.5.1.2 Glossary
- Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the Display Controller chapter.
- Term
- Definition
- AZA
- Intel Azalia Audio Controller
- ASR
- Aggressive Self Refresh
bpc
- Bit Per Component

- Display Controller
- Term
- Definition
bpp
- Bit Per Pixel
- BPP
- Byte Per Pixel
- CEC
- Consumer Electronics Control
- CMGR
- Clock Manager
- DC
- Display Controller
- DisplayPort
- DisplayPort
- DPAUX
- DisplayPort Auxiliary channel
- DVFS
- Dynamic Voltage Frequency Scale
eDP embedded DisplayPort (VESA)
- FB
- Frame Buffer
- HDMI
- High-Definition Multimedia Interface
- HDCP
- High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection
H-DA
- High Definition Audio
- HBR
- High Bit Rate (2.7 Gbps per lane)
- HBR2
- High Bit Rate 2 (5.4 Gbps per lane)
- HBR3
- High Bit Rate 3 (8.1 Gbps per lane)
- HPD
- Hot Plug Detect
- ISO Hub
- Isochronous Memory Hub
- LUT
- Look-Up Table
- PCLK
- Pixel Clock
- RBR
- Reduced Bit Rate
- RG
- Raster Generator
- SOR
- Serial Output Resource (changing display-raster pixels into different
protocols such as DisplayPort, HDMI)
- TMDS
- Transition-Minimized Differential Signaling
- TSC
- Time Stamps Controller
- VPR
- Video Protected Region
- VR
- Virtual Reality
- WGRP
- Window Group
- WinTZ
- Trustzone Window

- Display Controller
#### 7.5.1.3 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Address Map
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- CEC
- HDA
- Host Controller
- Memory Controller (MC)
#### 7.5.1.4 Features
##### 7.5.1.4.1 General
- Independent scan out paths (heads)
- Two heads
- One cursor on each head
- A8R8G8B8
- A1R5G5B5
- Cursor is enabled on a head if the head has at least one Window attached. Window need
not be enabled. The cursor pixels must be linearly encoded to be properly composited with Window pixels. XOR blending mode is approximated in the FP16 compositor.
- Max cursor size: 256 x 256
- Windows
- Four windows (four full windows)
Windows can be dynamically assigned to any head.
- Max raster size: 32767 x 32767
- Max active region 8192 x 8192
- Max input surface size: 32768 x 32768
- Max fetched size: 8208 x 8208
- Max pclk: up to 1,190 MHz (this may vary between the variants, confirm from the relevant
datasheet)
- Two heads may be combined together with compression or 4:2:0 to support monitors with
pclk frequencies up to 2,380 MHz (see note on previous line).
- One-Shot and Continuous display modes
Note that stereo is not supported in One-Shot mode. DSI is not supported in One-Shot mode.
- Semaphores
- Separate acquire and release window semaphores

- Display Controller
Six release-only semaphores per head based on RG line number. Support both 32-bit and 64-bit acquire and release values.
- Supports Strict Equal, Strict Greater-or-Equal, and Circular Greater-or-Equal acquisition
modes.
- Notifiers
- CRC notifier
- Completion notifier
- Flip control
minimum present interval
- Timestamp Flip
- Non-Tearing and Immediate flip modes
-
- Immediate flip supported for RGB only
- Generic Interlock between display channels
- Flip Lock
- Push buffers
- Hardware clipping of windows to the viewport
- Independent channels for cursor position and window position
- Programmable viewport position
- Overscan border
- Error checks
- Context DMAs
- Hardware-controlled mode sets
- Glitchless mode switches
##### 7.5.1.4.2 Input Surface
- Color Formats
Indexed Color:
- I8
2BPP RGB:
- R4G4B4A4, R5G6B5, A1R5G5B5, R5G5B5A1
4BPP, 8bpc RGB:
- A8R8G8B8, X8R8G8B8, A8B8G8R8, X8B8G8R8
4BPP, 10bpc RGB:
- A2R10G10B10, A2B10G10R10
64-bit RGB:
- R16_G16_B16_A16_NVBIAS, R16_G16_B16_A16
- FP16 RGB

- Display Controller
- RF16_GF16_BF16_AF16
Packed YUV 422:
- Y8_U8__Y8_V8_N422, U8_Y8__V8_Y8_N422
Semi-Planar 8bpc:
- Y8___U8V8_N444, Y8___U8V8_N422, Y8___V8U8_N420
Semi-Planar 10bpc:
- Y10___U10V10_N444, Y10___U10V10_N422, Y10___V10U10_N420
Semi-Planar 12bpc:
- Y12___U12V12_N444, Y12___U12V12_N422, Y12___V12U12_N420
Planar 8bpc:
- Y8___U8___V8_N444, Y8___U8___V8_N420
- No support for 10bpc or 12bpc planar
YUV surfaces have the following restrictions:
- Surfaces with chroma subsampling must have an even number of pixels/lines in the
direction of subsampling. When 90/270 rotation is enabled, all YUV surfaces must have even height. When 90/270 rotation is not enabled, all YUV surfaces must have even width.
- Isochronous Memory Hub
- Unified Mempool and Display fetch arbitration=1380 KB
- Fetch Metering
- Mempool Drain metering
- Horizontal and vertical-flipped scan direction
- Rotation
- BLx8 fetch pattern used for rotation
Rotation is supported on all windows.
- No more than one window using the I8 or YUV surface formats can be rotated (90/270
degrees) at any given time
- Pitch surface support
- Block Linear surface support
NVDisplay fetches BLx4 and uses XBAR_RAW addressing.
- VPR-capable read-only client
128 B read request interface
- Response bus is 64 B
Critical watermark to limit buffering when immediate flip is active.
- Defined as a number of lines
- Midframe mclk switch
- Used for DVFS

- Display Controller
- Hardware Performance Monitor support
##### 7.5.1.4.3 Pixel Processing
- Pipeline Depth
- Fixed Point for some stages: 16 bpc, [-1.5,2.5] range (2 range extension bits)
- FP16 for other stages
- Alpha blending
such as full alpha, per-window color key, global alpha alpha blending is always done with FP16 in the linear color domain
- Per Window Processing
- Chroma up-conversion for chroma-decimated YUV formats
- Chroma overfetch
- Multiple per-window CSC matrices
3 x 4 matrix multiplication with software-defined coefficients in the [-16, 16) range There are several CSC matrixes at different stages of the pipe.
- Per-window LUTs (ILUT, CSC0LUT, CSC1LUT)
programmable matrix + variable step size LUT-based CSC from input to ICtCp; also from
- ICtCp to RGB with final output gamut. The scaling and tone mapping are done in ICtCp
domain.
- Input range is limited to [0,1]. Can be mirrored around 0 to support [-1,1]
- ILUT
- - - - -
- Used to convert from fixed point to FP16 linear
- Variable step size and direct index mode
- Maximum size: 1025 entries
16 bpc
- Programmed using the Context DMA method
- CSC0LUT
- - - -
- Used to convert from FP16 to fixed point
- Variable step size
- Maximum size: 513
- Programmed directly using methods
- CSC1LUT
- - - -
- Used to convert from fixed point to FP16 linear
- Variable step size
- Maximum size: 513
- Programmed directly using methods
- Precomposition scaling

- Display Controller
- Maximum line width
- - 5120 pixels in 2-tap mode 2560 pixels in 5-tap mode
- Maximum downscale factor
- - 2x in both directions in 2-tap mode 4x in both directions in 5-tap mode
- Scaler overfetch
- Programmable 5-tap coefficients
- Tone Mapping (TMO)
- LUT-based intensity mapping, and 3 intensity zones with configurable color correction
settings
- Programmable range clamping before composition
- Per Head Processing
- Post-composition LUT
- Used to convert from FP16 linear to fixed-point gamma-encoded pixels
- Variable step size. Also supports direct10 mode for medical imaging (DICOM)
- Maximum size: 1025 entries
14 bpc, [0,1] range. Can be mirrored around 0 to support [-1,1]
- Dither
6, 8, 10 bpc output
- Static and Dynamic Error Accumulation Dither
- Temporal Dither
2 x 2 Static and Dynamic Dither
- Round-to-nearest (12 bpc output supported with this mode)
- Chroma Low-Pass filter (to facilitate 422 output)
- Programmable output CSC matrix
- Overscan border is added when the output viewport is smaller than the active raster region
- Programmable range clamping before output
- Display Stream Compression (DSC) v1.2a
- RGB444/YCbCr444 input at 8/10/12bpc
6bpp-32bpp output pixel depth with 1/16bpp precision 1, 2, 4 slices per line
- Max line width: 5120
- Max pclk with DSC: same as max pclk
4:2:0 chroma downsampling
- Convert from 4:4:4 to 4:2:0
- Additional chroma overfetch added for this stage

- Display Controller
- Maximum line width: 5120
- Regional CRCs
Nine programmable regions with software-defined golden values. Used for safety features.
##### 7.5.1.4.4 Output
2Head1OR
- The DSC compressed or 4:2:0 packed output from two heads can be merged to output an
8K stream. (Note that DSC only supports 4:4:4). DSC bpp must be <=16bpp in this mode.
- Maximum raster active width in 2head1OR mode is 7680 (3840 per head)
- Raster Lock
- Internal locking
- Stereo phase lock
- Stall Lock
- Progressive output only
- No support for interlaced
- Stereo
- Frame Interleave
- Hardware-constructed Frame packed Stereo for HDMI
- Two programmable line interrupts (registers)
- Six programmable line semaphores (methods)
- Can also trigger interrupts
- DisplayPort 1.4a (No DP2.0 support)
- Up to 8 channel 48 kHz Audio
- RBR, HBR, HBR2, HBR3
- RGB444 and YUV444 6, 8, 10, 12 bpc (6 bpc is RGB only)
- YUV422 8, 10, 12 bpc
Maximum pclk over a single 4 lane HBR3 link without downspread, FEC, or DSC: - - - - - 1190 MHz at 16bpp (YUV 422) 1,190 MHz at 18bpp 1,080 MHz at 24bpp 864 MHz at 30bpp 720 MHz at 36bpp
- Two Generic info frames per head (likely used for VSC and static HDR)
-
- No native support for Dynamic HDR metadata
- Forward Error Correction (FEC)
- DSC transport
-
- PPS can be used as another generic info frame when not being used for DSC

- Display Controller
- DisplayPort Multistream (MST)
-
- Any combination of heads can be sent to any combination of SORs (provided there is
enough link bandwidth to support those streams)
- Dual-MST
- -
- Not supported with YUV 4:2:2 output format
- Not supported with FEC
eDP 1.4b
- PSR v1
- NLT
- NVSR
- Support for intermediate link rates (2.16, 2.43, 3.24, 4.32, 6.75 Gbps/lane)
- HDMI 2.0a and HDMI 1.4
Maximum pclk supported in non-FRL mode is as follows: 8bpc 10bpc 12bpc
- RGB / YUV 4:4:4
600 MHz 320 MHz 400 MHz
- YUV 4:2:2
600 MHz 600 MHz 600 MHz
- YUV 4:2:0
1,200 MHz 640 MHz 800 MHz
- Up to 8 channel 192 kHz Audio
- AVI, VSI, GCP, and one Generic Info frame supported
-
- No support for Dynamic HDR metadata
- HDMI 2.1
- Fixed Rate link at 3G, 6G, 8G, 10G, or 12G
- RGB/YUV4:4:4 and YUV 4:2:0 uncompressed
- DSC transport over FRL (RGB/YUV 4:4:4 only)
- No 4:2:2 support in FRL mode
- No hardware support for other HDMI 2.1 features has been added. Some features like VRR
and QFT may be supported using software-only changes.
- Maximum supported pclk: 2,376 MHz (using 2Head1Or)
- HDCP
- HDCP 1.4 for HDMI
- HDCP 1.3 Amendment 1.1 for DisplayPort
- HDCP 2.3 for both DisplayPort and HDMI
- SOR Links
- Two SOR and one total link
- Either SOR can drive the link
- No dual-link support
- DSI

- Display Controller
- Head 0 only
- Four lane DSI-D
- Three trio DSI-C
- Max pclk: 500 MHz (1536 x 2456 @ 75 Hz)
6 bpc, 8 bpc, 10 bpc, 12 bpc RGB
- DSC (8, 10, 12, 16 bpp only)
- No audio support
##### 7.5.1.4.5 Performance
NVD4.0 is designed to target a maximum single head display resolution of 7680 x 4320 @ 30 Hz. 8K at 60 Hz requires two heads. The maximum pixel clock is 1,190 MHz. There are a maximum of 4 window surfaces and 2 cursor surfaces fetched at any given time. Note that the total number of surfaces active at any given time is limited by the available guaranteed ISO bandwidth from FB.
- Table 7.98 FB Bandwidth Requirement
- Max FB bandwidth
20 GB/s
- Heads
- Windows
- 1 GB = 1000 * 1000 * 1000 bytes
- Minimum hblank
Pixel processing within the Display pipeline can introduce bubbles between each line of pixels. The output protocol may incur additional overhead on top of the pixel stream. Hblank of the raster must absorb the overhead bubbles and encoding.
- Table 7.99 Minimum Hblank Requirement
- Unit
- Worst-case per-line gap
- Reason
- ISO Hub
- Packed: 6
- Planar/Semi-planar: 16
- Unused data at the beginning and end of a line needs
to be dropped.
- Planar Format: Worst case: 16 disp-clks
- SP Format: Worst case: 16 disp-clks
- Packed Format: Worst case: 6 disp-clks
- Precomp
- RGB: 34
- YUV: 40
- YUV chroma up-conversion: 2 cycles
- PXCTL state machines in PXGEN: 8 cycles
- Horizontal Scaler: 11 cycles
- Vertical Scaler: 15 cycles
- Extra pixels from YUVCrop: 4
- Comp
Cursor inserts a 6-cycle bubble.

- Display Controller
- Unit
- Worst-case per-line gap
- Reason
- Post-comp
- Horizontal Chroma Low-Pass filter: 8
- RG
- RG requires at least 3 pixels of hblank for HFP, HSYNC,
and HBP, but it does not introduce any bubbles of its own.
- SF/SOR
- DisplayPort min hblank can be up to 52 for single-head
DSC.
- HDMI min hblank, no audio, no HDCP 1.3: 14
- HDMI min hblank, w/audio, no HDCP1.3: 64
- HDMI min hblank, w/audio, and HDCP 1.3: 106
- FE
- FE is not directly involved with the line-to-line behavior
of the pipeline. The minimum hblank refers to the size of hblank programmed in the RG methods. When 2head1Or is enabled, DD halves the RG’s horizontal raster parameters. A configuration that requires N pixels of blanking requires a resolution with 2N pixels of blanking when this mode is used. The pessimistic minimum hblank for a YUV planar or semiplanar surface is:
- MAX (SOR min hblank, (ISO Hub + precomp + comp + post-comp + RG))
- MAX (SOR min hblank, 70)
If some features are not enabled, the minimum hblank may be smaller.
- Minimum vblank
To do an mclk switch during vblank, fetching must be stopped for the duration of the mclk switch or DVFS event. A complete spool up before the active region begins when fetching starts. If precomp scaling, post-comp scaling, all LUTs, DSC, 2head1Or, and mempool compression are enabled, then 22.5 scan lines are needed to complete spool up. Vblank should be greater than <fb stop time> + 22.5 lines. The 22.5 lines may be reduced if some features are not in use or if dispclk is running faster than the minimum dispclk required for the current mode.
##### 7.5.1.4.6 Max Resolutions
- The maximum pixel clock is 1,190 MHz. With the 2head1Or feature, the maximum targeted
resolution is 7680 x 4320 @ 60 Hz (pclk 2,376 MHz).
##### 7.5.1.4.7 State Management
Most method state in Display is triple buffered.
- Assembly: This state is set when a method is processed. The assembly value is sent on the
bundle bus to the appropriate submodule. This state does not directly affect functionality.
- This state is needed because each new Display configuration requires multiple methods,

- Display Controller
which are not atomic. This state permits software to assemble the next Display configuration over multiple methods.
- Armed: An update promotion bundle on the bundle bus atomically copies the assembly state
for a single channel to armed. This intermediate state is needed so that software can change the Display configuration multiple times per frame. After the promotion to Armed, software is free to overwrite the Assembly state and potentially perform another Update before the next frame begins.
- Active: At the start of each frame, a LoadV on the pixel bus promotes the current Armed
state to Active for all channels associated with that head. Active state controls the functionality of Display. All pixels that are processed before the LoadV use the Active state from the previous frame. All pixels that are processed after the LoadV use the Active state from the new frame. Software controls the location of update in the method stream. Multiple channels may be updated at the same time using interlocked updates. During every frame, hardware generates LoadV.
##### 7.5.1.4.8 Software Interfaces
Methods and registers control the display configuration state. Methods are triple buffered. Registers are typically single buffered and take effect immediately. There are exceptions to both rules. Methods enter the Display hardware through pushbuffers. The display itself manages the pushbuffers, rather than Host. Register programming is done through private register accesses (MMIO) through APB. Sets of methods are collected into channels, which all promote (update) at the same time. Updates on one channel do not affect other channels. The channels are defined below.
- Core Channel
The Core channel controls all shared resources like OR ownership and Window ownership. It also controls all per-head state such as raster parameters and post-comp pipe settings. There is only one Core channel. Core channel controls:
- Core Completion notifier
- Lockpins
- OR state
- OR ownership
- OR protocol
- Core Window state
- Window Usage Bounds
- Window Ownership
- Core Head state
- Raster parameters

- Display Controller
- Head Usage bounds
- Raster lock
- Output Scaler
- Cursor size and surface
- Output LUT, Output Color Space, Output Dynamic Range
- Dither / output color depth
- Head CRCs
- DSC settings
2Head1Or controls
- Chroma downsampling
- Head semaphores
- Window Channel
The window channels control all of the per-window state other than window position. There is one window channel per window supported by the chip. Window channel controls:
- Window Semaphores and Notifiers
- Composition controls (such as blend mode, depth)
- Window scaler
- Window size
- Window surface
- Input LUT
- Tone Mapping
- Surface format
- Presentation controls
- CSC0/CSC1 settings (matrix coefficients, LUT settings)
- WindowImmediate Channel
The WindowImmediate channel controls the position of the window surface on the Desktop. This is a separate channel so that the window position can be changed even if the Window channel is blocked for some reason allowing a smoother user experience. The WindowImmediate channel is a pushbuffer channel. This permits software to queue up several updates simultaneously.
- Cursor Channel
The Cursor channel defines the position of the cursor surface. The cursor surface itself is defined in the Core channel. Much like the Window Immediate channel, the purpose of this channel is to permit the cursor position to change even if the core channel is blocked or stalled for some reason.

- Display Controller
The Cursor channel is the only channel not controlled by the pushbuffer. Register writes to the UDISP address range to program the Cursor channel that is a PIO channel. Writes to this range generates cursor methods within Display. No pushbuffer or FIFO is associated with this channel, so software must take care not to generate new methods when the hardware is still busy with the previous method. Display hardware reports a “Free” value to report if there is free space to generate another method.
- Interlock / Fliplock
While normally the update methods on each channel are handled individually, Display provides the ability to interlock updates between (almost) any set of channels. With each update software can define the set of other channels that it wants to interlock. Display hardware waits for updates to be ready on all specified channels before permitting all of the updates to complete. The Window Immediate channels can only be interlocked with their associated Window channel. This is done to simplify the hardware implementation. Fliplock is a special case of Interlock, which uses an internal or external lock pin. This imposes additional restrictions on the timing of the Update to ensure that flips happen on the same frame even across multiple heads. Fliplocked heads must be rasterlocked.
- Register Ranges
- The Display address range is 0x138EFFFF: 0x13800000 (no VGA range). All addresses in the
following tables are zero-based, before adding the Display Base Address.
- Table 7.100 Major Display Register Ranges
- Name
- Byte Address
- Description
- Non-VGA Display Address Range
0x000EFFFF:0x00000000 Host allocates 1 MB of address range for DISP. The first 64 K is reserved for VGA I/O accesses.
- PDISP
0x0003FFFF:0x00000000 256 K
- DISP Error Collator
0x00040FFF:0x00040000 4 K used for the Error Collator registers
- Reserved
0x0005FFFF:0x00041000 124 K Unused for now
- UDISP
0x000EFFFF:0x00060000 576 K
- Mostly user registers. Private state cache also
defined in this range.
- Table 7.101 Display Private Register Ranges
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_PDISP_FE
0x00005FFF:0x00000000 24 K 0x6000
- Front End registers

- Display Controller
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_PDISP_HEAD
0x00009FFF:0x00006000 16 K 0x4000
- Head registers
2 K per head (0x800)
- Comp Head
- Post-comp
- Cursor Head
- TZ Head
- RG
- SF
- Reserved
0x0000BFFF:0x0000A000
- NV_PDISP_SOR
0x0000FFFF:0x0000C000 16 K 0x4000
- Per-SOR registers
2 K (0x800) per SOR
- Reserved
0x00011FFF:0x00010000 8 k 0x2000
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_WBOR
0x00012FFF:0x00012000 4 k 0x1000
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_DSI
0x00013FFF:0x00013000 4 k 0x1000 DSI registers.
- Reserved
0x000147FF:0x00014000 2 k 0x800
- NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF
0x0001487F:0x00014800 128 B
- Key RAM controls
- NV_PDISP_SEC
0x000148FF:0x00014880 128 B
- Misc Security status/controls
- NV_PDISP_UPSTREAM
0x000149FF:0x00014900 256 B
- HDCP Upstream reporting
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_VGA
0x00015FFF:0x00015000 4 k 0x1000 dword aliases for all of the VGA registers
- Reserved
0x00017FFF:0x00016000 8 k 0x2000
- NV_PDISP_IHUB
0x0001FFFF:0x00018000 32 K 0x8000
- ISO Hub registers
512 B per window 512 B per cursor
- NV_PDISP_WIN
0x0002FFFF:0x00020000 64 K 0x10000
- Per-window registers
2 k per WIN (1K precomp, 1 K comp)
- NV_PDISP_FE_SW
0x00030FFF:0x00030000 4 k 0x1000 Software read/write capability registers.
- Must be 4K aligned so that they can be
mapped to DD.
- Reserved
0x0003FFFF:0x00031000
- NV_PDISP_FE_EC
0x00040FFF:0x00040000 4 k 0x1000
- Error Collator

- Display Controller
- Table 7.102 Display User Registers
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_UDISP_PRIVATE
0x0006FFFF:0x0006 64 K Assembly and Armed state cache for all private channels. (Name is confusing) 16 K: Precalc 1 K per WinPvt 1 K per WrbkPvt 1 K for Core Variables 1 K for Local variables
- NV_UDISP_CORE
0x0007FFFF:0x0007 64 K Assembly and Armed state for the core channel.
- NV_UDISP_REMAP
0x000EFFFF:0x0008 448 K (7 64 K pages)
- This is the full size of the remappable area. It should be aligned
to a 256 KB boundary to make address decode and remapping easier.
- The non-remapped default order of channels already extends
into the 0xC0000 range, so we need at least five 64 K pages
- NV_UDISP_WIN0_ASY
0x000807FF:0x0008 2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT, GET, and
immediate methods) for each Window channel are mapped to a single 4K page.
- NV_UDISP_WIN0_ARM
0x00080FFF:0x0008 2 K (repeat 31 times for each window)
- NV_UDISP_WINIM0_AS
Y 0x000A07FF:0x000
- A0000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT and GET)
for each Window Immediate channel are mapped to a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_WINIM0_AR
M 0x000A0FFF:0x000
- A0800
2 K (repeat 31 times for each window)
- NV_UDISP_WRBK0_AS
Y 0x000C07FF:0x000
- C0000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT and GET)
for each Writeback channel are mapped to a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_WRBK0_AR
M 0x000C0FFF:0x000
- C0800
2 K (repeat 7 times for each writeback channel)
- NV_UDISP_CURS0_AS
Y 0x000C87FF:0x000
- C8000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state for each cursor PIO channel is
mapped into a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_CURS0_AR
M 0x000C8FFF:0x000
- C8800
2 K (repeat 7 times for each cursor channel)
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
0x000DFFFF:0x000
- D0000
64 K
- Unused

- Display Controller
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- SF UDISP
0x000EFFFF:0x000E 64 K
- This range is mapped directly to user space so that DD can
control DisplayPort and HDMI Info frames.
- Only about 8 K of the range is used, but likely the whole page
needs to be reserved so it can be mapped cleanly to user space.
#### 7.5.1.5 Modes of Operation
##### 7.5.1.5.1 Valid Operating Modes
Internally, the Display pipeline operates in one of three modes: Sleep: Display is idle and is not fetching any pixels or sending data to the Output Resource
- Snooze: The RG is actively generating a blank frame, but no pixels are being fetched from
memory. LoadV is still generated every frame. Awake: Display is sending frames to the connected output resource. There are three main controls, which affect the operating mode of Display: OR Ownership: If the head does not own an OR, it is asleep. As long as the head owns an OR, it is Awake or in Snooze.
- Window Ownership: If the head is not asleep and owns at least one window, the head
is Awake. If the head is not asleep and does not own any windows, the head is in Snooze mode.
- Core.Head.RunMode: This method controls if display operates in continuous or OneShot
mode. In Continuous mode, frames are generated automatically if the head is not asleep. In OneShot mode, frames are only generated one at a time as dictated by software. A summary of the possible combinations is listed in the following table.
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- NO
--- ----
- Head ASLEEP, No pixels fetched
- YES
- Continuous
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates
black frames.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline.
- YES
- Continuous
- YES
Head AWAKE.
- Pixels are being fetched and
processed continuously.

- Display Controller
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- YES
- OneShot1
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates a
single black frame and then stall at the end of vertical front porch.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline. Software controls gate LoadV.
- YES
- OneShot1
- YES
- Head AWAKE
- Display fetches and scans out a
single frame in response to each trigger event.
- RG stalls at the end of the vertical
front porch and send Vblank pixels to the OR. (1) Assumes that Stall Lock is also enabled. Note: In the table above, owning a window does not require the window to be enabled. If all windows owned by a head are disabled and the Head owns an OR, the head is still awake. The compositor generates the Default Desktop Color for the active raster. A head with DSC enabled in Snooze mode does not output a black frame. The output may be a gray frame, the DisplayPort Idle pattern, or the HDMI FRL Gap pattern.
##### 7.5.1.5.2 OneShot mode
“OneShot mode” is the generic name for the Display state where frames are not generated automatically. Software manually releases each frame and the RG extends vblank until the next frame is released.
- Two parameters control OneShot mode: 1) How the raster is stalled and 2) how the LoadV is
stalled. These controls are separate to give software the flexibility to tailor the mode to their needs.
- Raster Stalling
The Core.Head.SetStalllock method controls the raster stalling. Raster stalling can be enabled without LoadV blocking if desired.
- Field
- Description
- Enable
- Enables the stall lock feature
- Mode
- CONTINUOUS: The RG only stalls once and then switches to continuous scanout
mode. This is typically used for exiting one-shot mode. ONE_SHOT: The RG stalls every frame.

- Display Controller
- Field
- Description
- LockPin
- This defines whether an external lockpin is going to be used for the unstall
event. If no lockpin is defined, the RG automatically unstalls when a LoadV is received.
- The LoadV indicates that a frame has been released upstream and pixels follow
soon.
- If a lockpin is defined, the RG unstalls on the first lockpin edge after a LoadV
arrives.
- UnstallMode
While stalled, RG continuously repeats the last line of the vertical front porch. This is done to maintain lock with the panel.
- Upon an unstall, this mode selects whether RG finishes the current repeated line
before unstalling or whether it jumps immediately to the start of VSYNC.
- TEPolarity
- Controls whether the external unstall signal is falling edge triggered or rising
edge triggered. (unsupported) After an unstall event, RG waits for NV_PDISP_RG_UNSTALL_SPOOLUP pixel clocks before starting the next frame. Then, Display time can complete spool up before scanout begins.
- LoadV Stalling
In order to block the generation of new frames, LoadV is stalled. Specifically, Early LoadV is stalled. There are two mechanisms by which this can be accomplished: Using methods and using private registers. When Core.Head.SetDisplayRate is set to OneShot, Display only releases one LoadV at a time. Software must push an Update method with the ReleaseElv flag set in order to release a LoadV for another frame. The ReleaseElv flag can be set on any channel associated with that head. Setting ReleaseElv on a Core Update releases an ELV on all active OneShot heads.
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK can also be used to block LoadV. The trigger
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK_ALLOW_ONE_ELV is used to release a LoadV when this blocking
mechanism is used. When either of the LoadV blocking mechanisms are in place, RG Stall must be enabled in order to avoid underflows in the RG.
##### 7.5.1.5.3 Passthrough Mode
All display submodules, which perform any pixel processing must support a passthrough mode, which bypasses all logic that could potentially change the value of a pixel. This includes features like scaling, composition, CSC, and the LUTs (which are also used for FP16 conversion). ISO Hub does not perform any pixel processing so it remains unaffected. The purpose for this mode is to let Display pass an 8 bpc, 10 bpc, or 12 bpc RGB surface directly from the input to the output for software-implemented color formats. G-SYNC panels have a mode, which can update the firmware based on transmitted pixel values, so being able to pass data

- Display Controller
unchanged is important. (Passthrough for 12 bpc content requires the use of the A16R16G10B16 input format.)
##### 7.5.1.5.4 Power Gating
Display has a separate PD_disp power domain for all Display logic.
- Full Display Power Gating
All of Display can be power gated if Display is floorswept or otherwise unused. Power Gating clamps are added on all external interfaces to the display modules. Only display logic must be present in the display partitions so that they can be power gated. If Display is dynamically power gated, software must reinitialize Display on power up. This is the same procedure as boot. There is no context save and restore hardware.
- Asserting Display Reset
1. All display clocks must be running so that reset can propagate: a. b. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l. m. n. o. 2. Shut down all heads, which put all heads in the SLEEP state. a. b. Set Core.Sor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.DSI.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.Wbor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Core Update. Wait for Core Update to complete. (It may be necessary to use the accelerator bits in NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn> to force a channel to make progress if it is stuck.) c. d. e. f.

- Display Controller
3.
- If you cannot shut down a certain head or SOR even with the accelerators; force those
resources to use safe clock. This step must only be done if the previous step did not shut down one of the heads. a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_RG_FORCE_SAFE = _ENABLE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SF_SAFE_CTRL = _SAFE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SOR_MODE_BYPASS = _DP_SAFE
c. 4. Deallocate all Display channels: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DISCONNECT
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DEALLOCATE
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_STATE = _DEALLOC
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_WRITE_PENDING = _NO
c. d. 5. Clear HDA Presence Detect: a. b.
- NV_HDACODEC_AUDIO_HDA_PRESENCE_PW*_PD = NOT_PRESENT
- This step should be done whenever Display resets independently of HDA (e.g. if FN0 resets
but FN1 does not). 6. Clear all interrupts: a. Write 0xFFFFFFFF to all NV_PDISP_FE_EVT_STAT* registers. 7. Hot reset the Display DBB interface to flush out any pending transactions: a. b.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _ENABLE
- Poll for MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_1_0_NVDISPLAY_HOTRESET_STATUS ==
- FLUSH_DONE
8. Fence CBB and DBB: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRDWN
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRDWN. 9. Apply output clamps: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = ON
Delay at least 100 ns to ensure that clamps are engaged. 10. Assert reset: a. The following resets should be asserted: i.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_CO
- RE_RST
ii. 11. 12. After reset is asserted, the clocks branches mentioned in Step 1 can be stopped.
- Before continuing to gate power, ensure that there has been at least 3.7 µs since the last
ungating event. SRAM Sleep and power gating enable. 13. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = ON

- Display Controller
ii.
- SRAM_SLEEP = ON
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii.
- De-asserting Display Reset
1. 2. Wait until at least 3.7 µs have passed after the last entry into the power gating state. Disable SRAM Sleep and logic sleep power gating. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
ii. iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii. 3. The following clocks must be running for 2 µs before de-asserting reset. a. These clocks will be forcibly enabled when the system reset is asserted. If Display is reset independently of the rest of the chip, then software needs to enable these clocks manually. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l.

- Display Controller
m. dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal n. o. p. 4. If necessary, re-assert the reset signal as described in Step 10 above. a. Some APIs that enable clocks automatically de-assert reset. 5. 6. Wait 2 µs for reset to propagate. Disable output clamps: a.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = OFF
7. De-assert reset: a. b.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_COR
E_RST 8. Unfence CBB/DBB/Host Controller: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRUP
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRUP. 9. Take DBB out of flush mode: a.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _DISABLE
10. Initialize display RAMs: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_PUSHBUF -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_STATE_CACHE -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_PRECOMP_WIN_RAM_INIT(*)_SCALER_RTR -->TRIGGER
- Poll for the trigger bits to clear before continuing
c. d. 11. KFUSE read: a.
- NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_CTRL_FUSE_VALID -->YES to trigger Display to start reading the
- KFUSE
- Optional: Poll for NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_STATUS_KEY_READY == _YES
b.
- Impact on Power Gating to Clocks
Unused PLLs should be placed in IDDQ mode by software to save power.}(@{Key=7.5.1; Title=Overview; Body=The Display Controller is based on the NVDisplay 4.0 architecture, and has changed from prior NVIDIA SoCs. The main new features of NVDisplay 4.0 architecture are DSI output, native 4:2:0 HDMI output, and support for HDMI 2.1 Fixed Rate Link mode. The MIPI DSI protocol is used in some applications. The DSI encoder is handled separately but integrated into the Display hierarchy. The DSI encoder is another form of output resource. Native 4:2:0 output supports the 2head1Or feature (both heads are combined to drive a single panel over one output resource) to drive 8K HDMI panels without DSC compression. The display processing pipeline down samples 4:4:4 pixels to 4:2:0. The HDMI 2.1 Fixed Rate Link mode increases the available HDMI link bandwidth by approximately 3x over HDMI 2.0. It also permits DSC compressed streams over HDMI. The Display Controller has two heads and four windows. A window is a single surface that can be assigned to any head. Each head supports a single cursor, which can be composited on top of all windows. There is some amount of per-window pixel processing (the precomp pipeline) and some amount of per-head pixel processing (the post-comp pipeline). There is a single shared Isochronous Memory Hub (ISO Hub) for memory access, which services all window surfaces. The output from any head can be routed to any SOR; except only head0 can be attached to DSI. There is a crossbar between each SOR to each output link. All four windows are Full windows. Full windows contain the full HDR pixel processing functionality including a precomp scaler and tone mapping.

- Display Controller
**Figure 7.53 Top-Level Block Diagram**
#### 7.5.1.1 Standards Supported
- HDMI2.1
- DP1.4a
eDP1.4
- HDCP1.3 / HDCP2.3
- HDA1.0
#### 7.5.1.2 Glossary
- Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the Display Controller chapter.
- Term
- Definition
- AZA
- Intel Azalia Audio Controller
- ASR
- Aggressive Self Refresh
bpc
- Bit Per Component

- Display Controller
- Term
- Definition
bpp
- Bit Per Pixel
- BPP
- Byte Per Pixel
- CEC
- Consumer Electronics Control
- CMGR
- Clock Manager
- DC
- Display Controller
- DisplayPort
- DisplayPort
- DPAUX
- DisplayPort Auxiliary channel
- DVFS
- Dynamic Voltage Frequency Scale
eDP embedded DisplayPort (VESA)
- FB
- Frame Buffer
- HDMI
- High-Definition Multimedia Interface
- HDCP
- High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection
H-DA
- High Definition Audio
- HBR
- High Bit Rate (2.7 Gbps per lane)
- HBR2
- High Bit Rate 2 (5.4 Gbps per lane)
- HBR3
- High Bit Rate 3 (8.1 Gbps per lane)
- HPD
- Hot Plug Detect
- ISO Hub
- Isochronous Memory Hub
- LUT
- Look-Up Table
- PCLK
- Pixel Clock
- RBR
- Reduced Bit Rate
- RG
- Raster Generator
- SOR
- Serial Output Resource (changing display-raster pixels into different
protocols such as DisplayPort, HDMI)
- TMDS
- Transition-Minimized Differential Signaling
- TSC
- Time Stamps Controller
- VPR
- Video Protected Region
- VR
- Virtual Reality
- WGRP
- Window Group
- WinTZ
- Trustzone Window

- Display Controller
#### 7.5.1.3 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Address Map
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- CEC
- HDA
- Host Controller
- Memory Controller (MC)
#### 7.5.1.4 Features
##### 7.5.1.4.1 General
- Independent scan out paths (heads)
- Two heads
- One cursor on each head
- A8R8G8B8
- A1R5G5B5
- Cursor is enabled on a head if the head has at least one Window attached. Window need
not be enabled. The cursor pixels must be linearly encoded to be properly composited with Window pixels. XOR blending mode is approximated in the FP16 compositor.
- Max cursor size: 256 x 256
- Windows
- Four windows (four full windows)
Windows can be dynamically assigned to any head.
- Max raster size: 32767 x 32767
- Max active region 8192 x 8192
- Max input surface size: 32768 x 32768
- Max fetched size: 8208 x 8208
- Max pclk: up to 1,190 MHz (this may vary between the variants, confirm from the relevant
datasheet)
- Two heads may be combined together with compression or 4:2:0 to support monitors with
pclk frequencies up to 2,380 MHz (see note on previous line).
- One-Shot and Continuous display modes
Note that stereo is not supported in One-Shot mode. DSI is not supported in One-Shot mode.
- Semaphores
- Separate acquire and release window semaphores

- Display Controller
Six release-only semaphores per head based on RG line number. Support both 32-bit and 64-bit acquire and release values.
- Supports Strict Equal, Strict Greater-or-Equal, and Circular Greater-or-Equal acquisition
modes.
- Notifiers
- CRC notifier
- Completion notifier
- Flip control
minimum present interval
- Timestamp Flip
- Non-Tearing and Immediate flip modes
-
- Immediate flip supported for RGB only
- Generic Interlock between display channels
- Flip Lock
- Push buffers
- Hardware clipping of windows to the viewport
- Independent channels for cursor position and window position
- Programmable viewport position
- Overscan border
- Error checks
- Context DMAs
- Hardware-controlled mode sets
- Glitchless mode switches
##### 7.5.1.4.2 Input Surface
- Color Formats
Indexed Color:
- I8
2BPP RGB:
- R4G4B4A4, R5G6B5, A1R5G5B5, R5G5B5A1
4BPP, 8bpc RGB:
- A8R8G8B8, X8R8G8B8, A8B8G8R8, X8B8G8R8
4BPP, 10bpc RGB:
- A2R10G10B10, A2B10G10R10
64-bit RGB:
- R16_G16_B16_A16_NVBIAS, R16_G16_B16_A16
- FP16 RGB

- Display Controller
- RF16_GF16_BF16_AF16
Packed YUV 422:
- Y8_U8__Y8_V8_N422, U8_Y8__V8_Y8_N422
Semi-Planar 8bpc:
- Y8___U8V8_N444, Y8___U8V8_N422, Y8___V8U8_N420
Semi-Planar 10bpc:
- Y10___U10V10_N444, Y10___U10V10_N422, Y10___V10U10_N420
Semi-Planar 12bpc:
- Y12___U12V12_N444, Y12___U12V12_N422, Y12___V12U12_N420
Planar 8bpc:
- Y8___U8___V8_N444, Y8___U8___V8_N420
- No support for 10bpc or 12bpc planar
YUV surfaces have the following restrictions:
- Surfaces with chroma subsampling must have an even number of pixels/lines in the
direction of subsampling. When 90/270 rotation is enabled, all YUV surfaces must have even height. When 90/270 rotation is not enabled, all YUV surfaces must have even width.
- Isochronous Memory Hub
- Unified Mempool and Display fetch arbitration=1380 KB
- Fetch Metering
- Mempool Drain metering
- Horizontal and vertical-flipped scan direction
- Rotation
- BLx8 fetch pattern used for rotation
Rotation is supported on all windows.
- No more than one window using the I8 or YUV surface formats can be rotated (90/270
degrees) at any given time
- Pitch surface support
- Block Linear surface support
NVDisplay fetches BLx4 and uses XBAR_RAW addressing.
- VPR-capable read-only client
128 B read request interface
- Response bus is 64 B
Critical watermark to limit buffering when immediate flip is active.
- Defined as a number of lines
- Midframe mclk switch
- Used for DVFS

- Display Controller
- Hardware Performance Monitor support
##### 7.5.1.4.3 Pixel Processing
- Pipeline Depth
- Fixed Point for some stages: 16 bpc, [-1.5,2.5] range (2 range extension bits)
- FP16 for other stages
- Alpha blending
such as full alpha, per-window color key, global alpha alpha blending is always done with FP16 in the linear color domain
- Per Window Processing
- Chroma up-conversion for chroma-decimated YUV formats
- Chroma overfetch
- Multiple per-window CSC matrices
3 x 4 matrix multiplication with software-defined coefficients in the [-16, 16) range There are several CSC matrixes at different stages of the pipe.
- Per-window LUTs (ILUT, CSC0LUT, CSC1LUT)
programmable matrix + variable step size LUT-based CSC from input to ICtCp; also from
- ICtCp to RGB with final output gamut. The scaling and tone mapping are done in ICtCp
domain.
- Input range is limited to [0,1]. Can be mirrored around 0 to support [-1,1]
- ILUT
- - - - -
- Used to convert from fixed point to FP16 linear
- Variable step size and direct index mode
- Maximum size: 1025 entries
16 bpc
- Programmed using the Context DMA method
- CSC0LUT
- - - -
- Used to convert from FP16 to fixed point
- Variable step size
- Maximum size: 513
- Programmed directly using methods
- CSC1LUT
- - - -
- Used to convert from fixed point to FP16 linear
- Variable step size
- Maximum size: 513
- Programmed directly using methods
- Precomposition scaling

- Display Controller
- Maximum line width
- - 5120 pixels in 2-tap mode 2560 pixels in 5-tap mode
- Maximum downscale factor
- - 2x in both directions in 2-tap mode 4x in both directions in 5-tap mode
- Scaler overfetch
- Programmable 5-tap coefficients
- Tone Mapping (TMO)
- LUT-based intensity mapping, and 3 intensity zones with configurable color correction
settings
- Programmable range clamping before composition
- Per Head Processing
- Post-composition LUT
- Used to convert from FP16 linear to fixed-point gamma-encoded pixels
- Variable step size. Also supports direct10 mode for medical imaging (DICOM)
- Maximum size: 1025 entries
14 bpc, [0,1] range. Can be mirrored around 0 to support [-1,1]
- Dither
6, 8, 10 bpc output
- Static and Dynamic Error Accumulation Dither
- Temporal Dither
2 x 2 Static and Dynamic Dither
- Round-to-nearest (12 bpc output supported with this mode)
- Chroma Low-Pass filter (to facilitate 422 output)
- Programmable output CSC matrix
- Overscan border is added when the output viewport is smaller than the active raster region
- Programmable range clamping before output
- Display Stream Compression (DSC) v1.2a
- RGB444/YCbCr444 input at 8/10/12bpc
6bpp-32bpp output pixel depth with 1/16bpp precision 1, 2, 4 slices per line
- Max line width: 5120
- Max pclk with DSC: same as max pclk
4:2:0 chroma downsampling
- Convert from 4:4:4 to 4:2:0
- Additional chroma overfetch added for this stage

- Display Controller
- Maximum line width: 5120
- Regional CRCs
Nine programmable regions with software-defined golden values. Used for safety features.
##### 7.5.1.4.4 Output
2Head1OR
- The DSC compressed or 4:2:0 packed output from two heads can be merged to output an
8K stream. (Note that DSC only supports 4:4:4). DSC bpp must be <=16bpp in this mode.
- Maximum raster active width in 2head1OR mode is 7680 (3840 per head)
- Raster Lock
- Internal locking
- Stereo phase lock
- Stall Lock
- Progressive output only
- No support for interlaced
- Stereo
- Frame Interleave
- Hardware-constructed Frame packed Stereo for HDMI
- Two programmable line interrupts (registers)
- Six programmable line semaphores (methods)
- Can also trigger interrupts
- DisplayPort 1.4a (No DP2.0 support)
- Up to 8 channel 48 kHz Audio
- RBR, HBR, HBR2, HBR3
- RGB444 and YUV444 6, 8, 10, 12 bpc (6 bpc is RGB only)
- YUV422 8, 10, 12 bpc
Maximum pclk over a single 4 lane HBR3 link without downspread, FEC, or DSC: - - - - - 1190 MHz at 16bpp (YUV 422) 1,190 MHz at 18bpp 1,080 MHz at 24bpp 864 MHz at 30bpp 720 MHz at 36bpp
- Two Generic info frames per head (likely used for VSC and static HDR)
-
- No native support for Dynamic HDR metadata
- Forward Error Correction (FEC)
- DSC transport
-
- PPS can be used as another generic info frame when not being used for DSC

- Display Controller
- DisplayPort Multistream (MST)
-
- Any combination of heads can be sent to any combination of SORs (provided there is
enough link bandwidth to support those streams)
- Dual-MST
- -
- Not supported with YUV 4:2:2 output format
- Not supported with FEC
eDP 1.4b
- PSR v1
- NLT
- NVSR
- Support for intermediate link rates (2.16, 2.43, 3.24, 4.32, 6.75 Gbps/lane)
- HDMI 2.0a and HDMI 1.4
Maximum pclk supported in non-FRL mode is as follows: 8bpc 10bpc 12bpc
- RGB / YUV 4:4:4
600 MHz 320 MHz 400 MHz
- YUV 4:2:2
600 MHz 600 MHz 600 MHz
- YUV 4:2:0
1,200 MHz 640 MHz 800 MHz
- Up to 8 channel 192 kHz Audio
- AVI, VSI, GCP, and one Generic Info frame supported
-
- No support for Dynamic HDR metadata
- HDMI 2.1
- Fixed Rate link at 3G, 6G, 8G, 10G, or 12G
- RGB/YUV4:4:4 and YUV 4:2:0 uncompressed
- DSC transport over FRL (RGB/YUV 4:4:4 only)
- No 4:2:2 support in FRL mode
- No hardware support for other HDMI 2.1 features has been added. Some features like VRR
and QFT may be supported using software-only changes.
- Maximum supported pclk: 2,376 MHz (using 2Head1Or)
- HDCP
- HDCP 1.4 for HDMI
- HDCP 1.3 Amendment 1.1 for DisplayPort
- HDCP 2.3 for both DisplayPort and HDMI
- SOR Links
- Two SOR and one total link
- Either SOR can drive the link
- No dual-link support
- DSI

- Display Controller
- Head 0 only
- Four lane DSI-D
- Three trio DSI-C
- Max pclk: 500 MHz (1536 x 2456 @ 75 Hz)
6 bpc, 8 bpc, 10 bpc, 12 bpc RGB
- DSC (8, 10, 12, 16 bpp only)
- No audio support
##### 7.5.1.4.5 Performance
NVD4.0 is designed to target a maximum single head display resolution of 7680 x 4320 @ 30 Hz. 8K at 60 Hz requires two heads. The maximum pixel clock is 1,190 MHz. There are a maximum of 4 window surfaces and 2 cursor surfaces fetched at any given time. Note that the total number of surfaces active at any given time is limited by the available guaranteed ISO bandwidth from FB.
- Table 7.98 FB Bandwidth Requirement
- Max FB bandwidth
20 GB/s
- Heads
- Windows
- 1 GB = 1000 * 1000 * 1000 bytes
- Minimum hblank
Pixel processing within the Display pipeline can introduce bubbles between each line of pixels. The output protocol may incur additional overhead on top of the pixel stream. Hblank of the raster must absorb the overhead bubbles and encoding.
- Table 7.99 Minimum Hblank Requirement
- Unit
- Worst-case per-line gap
- Reason
- ISO Hub
- Packed: 6
- Planar/Semi-planar: 16
- Unused data at the beginning and end of a line needs
to be dropped.
- Planar Format: Worst case: 16 disp-clks
- SP Format: Worst case: 16 disp-clks
- Packed Format: Worst case: 6 disp-clks
- Precomp
- RGB: 34
- YUV: 40
- YUV chroma up-conversion: 2 cycles
- PXCTL state machines in PXGEN: 8 cycles
- Horizontal Scaler: 11 cycles
- Vertical Scaler: 15 cycles
- Extra pixels from YUVCrop: 4
- Comp
Cursor inserts a 6-cycle bubble.

- Display Controller
- Unit
- Worst-case per-line gap
- Reason
- Post-comp
- Horizontal Chroma Low-Pass filter: 8
- RG
- RG requires at least 3 pixels of hblank for HFP, HSYNC,
and HBP, but it does not introduce any bubbles of its own.
- SF/SOR
- DisplayPort min hblank can be up to 52 for single-head
DSC.
- HDMI min hblank, no audio, no HDCP 1.3: 14
- HDMI min hblank, w/audio, no HDCP1.3: 64
- HDMI min hblank, w/audio, and HDCP 1.3: 106
- FE
- FE is not directly involved with the line-to-line behavior
of the pipeline. The minimum hblank refers to the size of hblank programmed in the RG methods. When 2head1Or is enabled, DD halves the RG’s horizontal raster parameters. A configuration that requires N pixels of blanking requires a resolution with 2N pixels of blanking when this mode is used. The pessimistic minimum hblank for a YUV planar or semiplanar surface is:
- MAX (SOR min hblank, (ISO Hub + precomp + comp + post-comp + RG))
- MAX (SOR min hblank, 70)
If some features are not enabled, the minimum hblank may be smaller.
- Minimum vblank
To do an mclk switch during vblank, fetching must be stopped for the duration of the mclk switch or DVFS event. A complete spool up before the active region begins when fetching starts. If precomp scaling, post-comp scaling, all LUTs, DSC, 2head1Or, and mempool compression are enabled, then 22.5 scan lines are needed to complete spool up. Vblank should be greater than <fb stop time> + 22.5 lines. The 22.5 lines may be reduced if some features are not in use or if dispclk is running faster than the minimum dispclk required for the current mode.
##### 7.5.1.4.6 Max Resolutions
- The maximum pixel clock is 1,190 MHz. With the 2head1Or feature, the maximum targeted
resolution is 7680 x 4320 @ 60 Hz (pclk 2,376 MHz).
##### 7.5.1.4.7 State Management
Most method state in Display is triple buffered.
- Assembly: This state is set when a method is processed. The assembly value is sent on the
bundle bus to the appropriate submodule. This state does not directly affect functionality.
- This state is needed because each new Display configuration requires multiple methods,

- Display Controller
which are not atomic. This state permits software to assemble the next Display configuration over multiple methods.
- Armed: An update promotion bundle on the bundle bus atomically copies the assembly state
for a single channel to armed. This intermediate state is needed so that software can change the Display configuration multiple times per frame. After the promotion to Armed, software is free to overwrite the Assembly state and potentially perform another Update before the next frame begins.
- Active: At the start of each frame, a LoadV on the pixel bus promotes the current Armed
state to Active for all channels associated with that head. Active state controls the functionality of Display. All pixels that are processed before the LoadV use the Active state from the previous frame. All pixels that are processed after the LoadV use the Active state from the new frame. Software controls the location of update in the method stream. Multiple channels may be updated at the same time using interlocked updates. During every frame, hardware generates LoadV.
##### 7.5.1.4.8 Software Interfaces
Methods and registers control the display configuration state. Methods are triple buffered. Registers are typically single buffered and take effect immediately. There are exceptions to both rules. Methods enter the Display hardware through pushbuffers. The display itself manages the pushbuffers, rather than Host. Register programming is done through private register accesses (MMIO) through APB. Sets of methods are collected into channels, which all promote (update) at the same time. Updates on one channel do not affect other channels. The channels are defined below.
- Core Channel
The Core channel controls all shared resources like OR ownership and Window ownership. It also controls all per-head state such as raster parameters and post-comp pipe settings. There is only one Core channel. Core channel controls:
- Core Completion notifier
- Lockpins
- OR state
- OR ownership
- OR protocol
- Core Window state
- Window Usage Bounds
- Window Ownership
- Core Head state
- Raster parameters

- Display Controller
- Head Usage bounds
- Raster lock
- Output Scaler
- Cursor size and surface
- Output LUT, Output Color Space, Output Dynamic Range
- Dither / output color depth
- Head CRCs
- DSC settings
2Head1Or controls
- Chroma downsampling
- Head semaphores
- Window Channel
The window channels control all of the per-window state other than window position. There is one window channel per window supported by the chip. Window channel controls:
- Window Semaphores and Notifiers
- Composition controls (such as blend mode, depth)
- Window scaler
- Window size
- Window surface
- Input LUT
- Tone Mapping
- Surface format
- Presentation controls
- CSC0/CSC1 settings (matrix coefficients, LUT settings)
- WindowImmediate Channel
The WindowImmediate channel controls the position of the window surface on the Desktop. This is a separate channel so that the window position can be changed even if the Window channel is blocked for some reason allowing a smoother user experience. The WindowImmediate channel is a pushbuffer channel. This permits software to queue up several updates simultaneously.
- Cursor Channel
The Cursor channel defines the position of the cursor surface. The cursor surface itself is defined in the Core channel. Much like the Window Immediate channel, the purpose of this channel is to permit the cursor position to change even if the core channel is blocked or stalled for some reason.

- Display Controller
The Cursor channel is the only channel not controlled by the pushbuffer. Register writes to the UDISP address range to program the Cursor channel that is a PIO channel. Writes to this range generates cursor methods within Display. No pushbuffer or FIFO is associated with this channel, so software must take care not to generate new methods when the hardware is still busy with the previous method. Display hardware reports a “Free” value to report if there is free space to generate another method.
- Interlock / Fliplock
While normally the update methods on each channel are handled individually, Display provides the ability to interlock updates between (almost) any set of channels. With each update software can define the set of other channels that it wants to interlock. Display hardware waits for updates to be ready on all specified channels before permitting all of the updates to complete. The Window Immediate channels can only be interlocked with their associated Window channel. This is done to simplify the hardware implementation. Fliplock is a special case of Interlock, which uses an internal or external lock pin. This imposes additional restrictions on the timing of the Update to ensure that flips happen on the same frame even across multiple heads. Fliplocked heads must be rasterlocked.
- Register Ranges
- The Display address range is 0x138EFFFF: 0x13800000 (no VGA range). All addresses in the
following tables are zero-based, before adding the Display Base Address.
- Table 7.100 Major Display Register Ranges
- Name
- Byte Address
- Description
- Non-VGA Display Address Range
0x000EFFFF:0x00000000 Host allocates 1 MB of address range for DISP. The first 64 K is reserved for VGA I/O accesses.
- PDISP
0x0003FFFF:0x00000000 256 K
- DISP Error Collator
0x00040FFF:0x00040000 4 K used for the Error Collator registers
- Reserved
0x0005FFFF:0x00041000 124 K Unused for now
- UDISP
0x000EFFFF:0x00060000 576 K
- Mostly user registers. Private state cache also
defined in this range.
- Table 7.101 Display Private Register Ranges
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_PDISP_FE
0x00005FFF:0x00000000 24 K 0x6000
- Front End registers

- Display Controller
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_PDISP_HEAD
0x00009FFF:0x00006000 16 K 0x4000
- Head registers
2 K per head (0x800)
- Comp Head
- Post-comp
- Cursor Head
- TZ Head
- RG
- SF
- Reserved
0x0000BFFF:0x0000A000
- NV_PDISP_SOR
0x0000FFFF:0x0000C000 16 K 0x4000
- Per-SOR registers
2 K (0x800) per SOR
- Reserved
0x00011FFF:0x00010000 8 k 0x2000
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_WBOR
0x00012FFF:0x00012000 4 k 0x1000
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_DSI
0x00013FFF:0x00013000 4 k 0x1000 DSI registers.
- Reserved
0x000147FF:0x00014000 2 k 0x800
- NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF
0x0001487F:0x00014800 128 B
- Key RAM controls
- NV_PDISP_SEC
0x000148FF:0x00014880 128 B
- Misc Security status/controls
- NV_PDISP_UPSTREAM
0x000149FF:0x00014900 256 B
- HDCP Upstream reporting
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_VGA
0x00015FFF:0x00015000 4 k 0x1000 dword aliases for all of the VGA registers
- Reserved
0x00017FFF:0x00016000 8 k 0x2000
- NV_PDISP_IHUB
0x0001FFFF:0x00018000 32 K 0x8000
- ISO Hub registers
512 B per window 512 B per cursor
- NV_PDISP_WIN
0x0002FFFF:0x00020000 64 K 0x10000
- Per-window registers
2 k per WIN (1K precomp, 1 K comp)
- NV_PDISP_FE_SW
0x00030FFF:0x00030000 4 k 0x1000 Software read/write capability registers.
- Must be 4K aligned so that they can be
mapped to DD.
- Reserved
0x0003FFFF:0x00031000
- NV_PDISP_FE_EC
0x00040FFF:0x00040000 4 k 0x1000
- Error Collator

- Display Controller
- Table 7.102 Display User Registers
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_UDISP_PRIVATE
0x0006FFFF:0x0006 64 K Assembly and Armed state cache for all private channels. (Name is confusing) 16 K: Precalc 1 K per WinPvt 1 K per WrbkPvt 1 K for Core Variables 1 K for Local variables
- NV_UDISP_CORE
0x0007FFFF:0x0007 64 K Assembly and Armed state for the core channel.
- NV_UDISP_REMAP
0x000EFFFF:0x0008 448 K (7 64 K pages)
- This is the full size of the remappable area. It should be aligned
to a 256 KB boundary to make address decode and remapping easier.
- The non-remapped default order of channels already extends
into the 0xC0000 range, so we need at least five 64 K pages
- NV_UDISP_WIN0_ASY
0x000807FF:0x0008 2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT, GET, and
immediate methods) for each Window channel are mapped to a single 4K page.
- NV_UDISP_WIN0_ARM
0x00080FFF:0x0008 2 K (repeat 31 times for each window)
- NV_UDISP_WINIM0_AS
Y 0x000A07FF:0x000
- A0000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT and GET)
for each Window Immediate channel are mapped to a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_WINIM0_AR
M 0x000A0FFF:0x000
- A0800
2 K (repeat 31 times for each window)
- NV_UDISP_WRBK0_AS
Y 0x000C07FF:0x000
- C0000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT and GET)
for each Writeback channel are mapped to a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_WRBK0_AR
M 0x000C0FFF:0x000
- C0800
2 K (repeat 7 times for each writeback channel)
- NV_UDISP_CURS0_AS
Y 0x000C87FF:0x000
- C8000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state for each cursor PIO channel is
mapped into a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_CURS0_AR
M 0x000C8FFF:0x000
- C8800
2 K (repeat 7 times for each cursor channel)
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
0x000DFFFF:0x000
- D0000
64 K
- Unused

- Display Controller
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- SF UDISP
0x000EFFFF:0x000E 64 K
- This range is mapped directly to user space so that DD can
control DisplayPort and HDMI Info frames.
- Only about 8 K of the range is used, but likely the whole page
needs to be reserved so it can be mapped cleanly to user space.
#### 7.5.1.5 Modes of Operation
##### 7.5.1.5.1 Valid Operating Modes
Internally, the Display pipeline operates in one of three modes: Sleep: Display is idle and is not fetching any pixels or sending data to the Output Resource
- Snooze: The RG is actively generating a blank frame, but no pixels are being fetched from
memory. LoadV is still generated every frame. Awake: Display is sending frames to the connected output resource. There are three main controls, which affect the operating mode of Display: OR Ownership: If the head does not own an OR, it is asleep. As long as the head owns an OR, it is Awake or in Snooze.
- Window Ownership: If the head is not asleep and owns at least one window, the head
is Awake. If the head is not asleep and does not own any windows, the head is in Snooze mode.
- Core.Head.RunMode: This method controls if display operates in continuous or OneShot
mode. In Continuous mode, frames are generated automatically if the head is not asleep. In OneShot mode, frames are only generated one at a time as dictated by software. A summary of the possible combinations is listed in the following table.
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- NO
--- ----
- Head ASLEEP, No pixels fetched
- YES
- Continuous
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates
black frames.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline.
- YES
- Continuous
- YES
Head AWAKE.
- Pixels are being fetched and
processed continuously.

- Display Controller
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- YES
- OneShot1
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates a
single black frame and then stall at the end of vertical front porch.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline. Software controls gate LoadV.
- YES
- OneShot1
- YES
- Head AWAKE
- Display fetches and scans out a
single frame in response to each trigger event.
- RG stalls at the end of the vertical
front porch and send Vblank pixels to the OR. (1) Assumes that Stall Lock is also enabled. Note: In the table above, owning a window does not require the window to be enabled. If all windows owned by a head are disabled and the Head owns an OR, the head is still awake. The compositor generates the Default Desktop Color for the active raster. A head with DSC enabled in Snooze mode does not output a black frame. The output may be a gray frame, the DisplayPort Idle pattern, or the HDMI FRL Gap pattern.
##### 7.5.1.5.2 OneShot mode
“OneShot mode” is the generic name for the Display state where frames are not generated automatically. Software manually releases each frame and the RG extends vblank until the next frame is released.
- Two parameters control OneShot mode: 1) How the raster is stalled and 2) how the LoadV is
stalled. These controls are separate to give software the flexibility to tailor the mode to their needs.
- Raster Stalling
The Core.Head.SetStalllock method controls the raster stalling. Raster stalling can be enabled without LoadV blocking if desired.
- Field
- Description
- Enable
- Enables the stall lock feature
- Mode
- CONTINUOUS: The RG only stalls once and then switches to continuous scanout
mode. This is typically used for exiting one-shot mode. ONE_SHOT: The RG stalls every frame.

- Display Controller
- Field
- Description
- LockPin
- This defines whether an external lockpin is going to be used for the unstall
event. If no lockpin is defined, the RG automatically unstalls when a LoadV is received.
- The LoadV indicates that a frame has been released upstream and pixels follow
soon.
- If a lockpin is defined, the RG unstalls on the first lockpin edge after a LoadV
arrives.
- UnstallMode
While stalled, RG continuously repeats the last line of the vertical front porch. This is done to maintain lock with the panel.
- Upon an unstall, this mode selects whether RG finishes the current repeated line
before unstalling or whether it jumps immediately to the start of VSYNC.
- TEPolarity
- Controls whether the external unstall signal is falling edge triggered or rising
edge triggered. (unsupported) After an unstall event, RG waits for NV_PDISP_RG_UNSTALL_SPOOLUP pixel clocks before starting the next frame. Then, Display time can complete spool up before scanout begins.
- LoadV Stalling
In order to block the generation of new frames, LoadV is stalled. Specifically, Early LoadV is stalled. There are two mechanisms by which this can be accomplished: Using methods and using private registers. When Core.Head.SetDisplayRate is set to OneShot, Display only releases one LoadV at a time. Software must push an Update method with the ReleaseElv flag set in order to release a LoadV for another frame. The ReleaseElv flag can be set on any channel associated with that head. Setting ReleaseElv on a Core Update releases an ELV on all active OneShot heads.
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK can also be used to block LoadV. The trigger
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK_ALLOW_ONE_ELV is used to release a LoadV when this blocking
mechanism is used. When either of the LoadV blocking mechanisms are in place, RG Stall must be enabled in order to avoid underflows in the RG.
##### 7.5.1.5.3 Passthrough Mode
All display submodules, which perform any pixel processing must support a passthrough mode, which bypasses all logic that could potentially change the value of a pixel. This includes features like scaling, composition, CSC, and the LUTs (which are also used for FP16 conversion). ISO Hub does not perform any pixel processing so it remains unaffected. The purpose for this mode is to let Display pass an 8 bpc, 10 bpc, or 12 bpc RGB surface directly from the input to the output for software-implemented color formats. G-SYNC panels have a mode, which can update the firmware based on transmitted pixel values, so being able to pass data

- Display Controller
unchanged is important. (Passthrough for 12 bpc content requires the use of the A16R16G10B16 input format.)
##### 7.5.1.5.4 Power Gating
Display has a separate PD_disp power domain for all Display logic.
- Full Display Power Gating
All of Display can be power gated if Display is floorswept or otherwise unused. Power Gating clamps are added on all external interfaces to the display modules. Only display logic must be present in the display partitions so that they can be power gated. If Display is dynamically power gated, software must reinitialize Display on power up. This is the same procedure as boot. There is no context save and restore hardware.
- Asserting Display Reset
1. All display clocks must be running so that reset can propagate: a. b. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l. m. n. o. 2. Shut down all heads, which put all heads in the SLEEP state. a. b. Set Core.Sor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.DSI.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.Wbor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Core Update. Wait for Core Update to complete. (It may be necessary to use the accelerator bits in NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn> to force a channel to make progress if it is stuck.) c. d. e. f.

- Display Controller
3.
- If you cannot shut down a certain head or SOR even with the accelerators; force those
resources to use safe clock. This step must only be done if the previous step did not shut down one of the heads. a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_RG_FORCE_SAFE = _ENABLE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SF_SAFE_CTRL = _SAFE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SOR_MODE_BYPASS = _DP_SAFE
c. 4. Deallocate all Display channels: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DISCONNECT
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DEALLOCATE
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_STATE = _DEALLOC
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_WRITE_PENDING = _NO
c. d. 5. Clear HDA Presence Detect: a. b.
- NV_HDACODEC_AUDIO_HDA_PRESENCE_PW*_PD = NOT_PRESENT
- This step should be done whenever Display resets independently of HDA (e.g. if FN0 resets
but FN1 does not). 6. Clear all interrupts: a. Write 0xFFFFFFFF to all NV_PDISP_FE_EVT_STAT* registers. 7. Hot reset the Display DBB interface to flush out any pending transactions: a. b.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _ENABLE
- Poll for MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_1_0_NVDISPLAY_HOTRESET_STATUS ==
- FLUSH_DONE
8. Fence CBB and DBB: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRDWN
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRDWN. 9. Apply output clamps: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = ON
Delay at least 100 ns to ensure that clamps are engaged. 10. Assert reset: a. The following resets should be asserted: i.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_CO
- RE_RST
ii. 11. 12. After reset is asserted, the clocks branches mentioned in Step 1 can be stopped.
- Before continuing to gate power, ensure that there has been at least 3.7 µs since the last
ungating event. SRAM Sleep and power gating enable. 13. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = ON

- Display Controller
ii.
- SRAM_SLEEP = ON
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii.
- De-asserting Display Reset
1. 2. Wait until at least 3.7 µs have passed after the last entry into the power gating state. Disable SRAM Sleep and logic sleep power gating. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
ii. iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii. 3. The following clocks must be running for 2 µs before de-asserting reset. a. These clocks will be forcibly enabled when the system reset is asserted. If Display is reset independently of the rest of the chip, then software needs to enable these clocks manually. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l.

- Display Controller
m. dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal n. o. p. 4. If necessary, re-assert the reset signal as described in Step 10 above. a. Some APIs that enable clocks automatically de-assert reset. 5. 6. Wait 2 µs for reset to propagate. Disable output clamps: a.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = OFF
7. De-assert reset: a. b.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_COR
E_RST 8. Unfence CBB/DBB/Host Controller: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRUP
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRUP. 9. Take DBB out of flush mode: a.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _DISABLE
10. Initialize display RAMs: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_PUSHBUF -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_STATE_CACHE -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_PRECOMP_WIN_RAM_INIT(*)_SCALER_RTR -->TRIGGER
- Poll for the trigger bits to clear before continuing
c. d. 11. KFUSE read: a.
- NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_CTRL_FUSE_VALID -->YES to trigger Display to start reading the
- KFUSE
- Optional: Poll for NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_STATUS_KEY_READY == _YES
b.
- Impact on Power Gating to Clocks
Unused PLLs should be placed in IDDQ mode by software to save power.}.Body)
