# 7.5.2 Functional Description

The functionality of the Display Controller is described in the following sections based on its functional partition for pixel processing, Front End (FE), Isochronous Memory Hub (ISO Hub),
- Precomposition (Precomp), Composition (Comp), Post-composition (Post-comp), and Raster
Generation (RG).

- Display Controller
#### 7.5.2.1 Front End Host Interface
The Display Front End receives control instructions for pixel processing from the Host Controller by managing the following: host interface registers interrupts
- LoadV
startFetch, pushbuffers state cache error checks precalc No pixel processing is performed in the FE. The Display Front End is partitioned into five major subunits.
- Method Fetch (MF)
- Method Processor (MP)
- State Manager (SM)
- Real Time (RT)
- Arbitration Layer (AL)
##### 7.5.2.1.1 Isochronous Memory Hub (ISO Hub)
The ISO Hub is the combined interface between the ISO read path and the rest of the Display pipeline. Requests made on the display read path have a higher priority because display requires isochronous data. The purpose of the ISO Hub is to generate all of the read requests to FB for all display fetch surfaces. It must arbitrate the requests in such a way as to prevent underflows on any head. The ISO Hub contains a large shared memory pool to buffer read return data. This is used to avoid refetching of pixels for block-linear surfaces, absorbs some amount of FB latency variation, and other long latency events like DVFS. The ISO Hub does not change the values of any pixel. It needs to perform some reordering of the data (including rotation) so that the pixels can be fed into the precomp pipe in the correct order.
##### 7.5.2.1.2 Pre-Composition Pipe (Precomp)
- The Precomp pipe performs all pixel processing that must be done before composition. The
Precomp formats pixels to the internal pipe color format, apply the input LUT, tone mapping, and several 3 x 4 matrix transformations, and perform scaling. A precomp pipe is tied to a specific

- Display Controller
- Window channel and is mostly controlled through that channel. Each precomp pipe operates
independently of the other pipelines.
**Figure 7.54 Pre-Composition Pipe**
##### 7.5.2.1.3 Composition and Crossbar
The compositor takes two input surfaces and produces one composited output surface. There is one compositor at the end of each Precomp pipe. Each of these compositors accepts pixels from the local Precomp pipe and the output of a compositor from another pipeline (or a programmable background color). Pixels are merged using alpha blending or color keying. A full cross-bar exists to

- Display Controller
route pixels from any compositor to any other compositor. The output to the head pipe can come from any compositor. The Cursor Compositor is located in the head’s pipeline after the XBAR. The cursor is always composited on top of all windows. While each window and cursor contains a single compositor, the collection of all compositors and the Crossbar is often referred to as “comp”.
**Figure 7.55 Composition Pipe**
##### 7.5.2.1.4 Post-Composition Pipe
The Post-comp pipe contains all stages of pixel processing between the Compositor XBAR and the Raster Generator. This includes the output LUT, output scaler, dither, DSC, and the output color- space converter. There is one Post-comp pipe per head controlled by the Core Channel.

- Display Controller
**Figure 7.56 Post-Comp Pipe**
- PCIS: Input Stage. Handles interface with compositor and VGA
- OCSC0: 3 x 4 CSC matrix. Can be used for Hue/Sat adjustment or conversion from RGB to LMS
- OLUT: Output LUT. Applies the appropriate OETF/gamma for the panel
- OCSC1: 3 x 4 CSC matrix. Used to convert to the final output color space
- SCLR: Post-composition Scaler (Post-comp does not include a scaler)
HCLPF: Horizontal Chroma Low Pass Filter. Performs filtering on the chroma component when the output is 4:2:2 or 4:2:0 VFILTER: Vertical Chroma Low Pass Filter. Performs filtering on the chroma component when the output is 4:2:0
- DTH: Dither from pipeline color depth to the panel’s color depth
OSCAN: Overscan. Adds border pixels with the output Viewport is smaller than the active region
- PCOS: post-comp Output Stage. Includes Regional CRC, 4:2:0 packer, and output clamping
DSC: Display Stream Compression (not shown). Compresses the final pixel stream. This occurs between Post-comp and RG.
##### 7.5.2.1.5 Raster Generator (RG)
The raster generator adds blanking, syncs, and other timing information to the raw pixels from the
- Post-comp pipe. The raster generator must generate one pixel per pixel clock to the output
resources. The raster generator is also responsible for performing raster lock and some protocol- specific formatting.

- Display Controller
For the 2head1Or feature, two RGs are ganged together to generate a single output stream to the SF and SOR. The RG pairing is fixed: RG1 can pass pixels to RG0.
**Figure 7.57 Raster Generation Pipe**
RGEN: Raster Generator. All of the raster timing (blanks, syncs) are applied here. Responsible for raster lock. For 2head1Or, RGEN for head0 can accept pixels from head1's RG. PRU: Pixel Reorder Unit. When driving Dual-MST or Dual SST, this reorders the pixels so that the left-half pixels are sent to one stream and the right-half pixels are sent to another stream. ORIF: Output Resource Interface. Output resource-specific formatting. CRC: Calculates RG CRC.
##### 7.5.2.1.6 Serial Formatter (SF)
The SF is responsible for half of the DisplayPort link layer protocol and the HDMI protocol encoding. Audio data is inserted into the blanking region at this point in the pipe. The remaining DisplayPort, TMDS, and HDMI FRL formatting are performed in the SOR. The responsibilities are split so that multiple heads can be used to drive a single SOR for DisplayPort Multistream. The SF performs some minor formatting (mainly identifying line type) when the output is DSI.
##### 7.5.2.1.7 Serial Output Resource (SOR)
The SOR performs the remaining pixel encoding for TMDS (HDMI), HDMI FRL, and DisplayPort. HDCP is performed for both HDMI and DisplayPort in the SOR. It produces the final parallel data to the analog macro, which drives signals to the panel. The SOR is also responsible for panel power sequencing and all associated SOR macro control signals.
##### 7.5.2.1.8 DSI
The DSI acts as an output resource similar to the SOR. It accepts pixel data from the SF and performs the encoding necessary to send the data over a DSI CPHY or DPHY link. It produces the final parallel data to be sent to the analog macro.

- Display Controller
##### 7.5.2.1.9 Display SEC
DISP_SEC is a centralized module that oversees the security of many of Display’s subunits.
- DISP_SEC manages VPR policy, secure keys, upstream reporting, and the Secure Bus. Some
subunits report a panic condition to DISP_SEC when they detect a condition that may potentially leak protected content. DISP_SEC can instruct the pipeline to blank the output data when this occurs.
##### 7.5.2.1.10 CRC Collection
This mechanism is used by NVIDIA to verify display hardware functionality in testing, by comparing per-frame CRCs between RTL and a model. This is separate from, and different to, the regional CRC mechanism used for functional safety checks. CRCs are collected in the RG, Compositor, and ORs. FE reads the subunits’ CRCs over the bundle bus after they assert crc_valid. The results are written to a notifier structure in memory. The test infrastructure reads the notifier and writes out a test.crc file. This is compared against the golden CRC file.
- CRC Register Interface
All units, which calculate CRCs should expose these common register fields:
- Table 7.103 CRCA Register Fields
- Field
- Size (bits)
- Description
- VALID
- Reports whether the current CRC is valid. Cleared when
CRCB is read.
- ERROR
A new CRC was generated while Valid was still high from the previous CRC. A CRC value was lost. This bit is cleared upon reading CRCA.
- VPR_STATUS
- Indicate whether the CRC in CRCB register was derived
from at least one VPR pixel.
- Table 7.104 CRCB Register Fields
- Field
- Size (bits)
- Description
- CRC
- Reading the CRC clears the Valid bit in CRCA
- This register is protected using PLM to prevent insecure
software from reading CRCs based on VPR pixels.
- CRC capture begins at LoadV and ends at the end of the frame. Based on the value of
Core.Head.SetControlOutputResource.CrcMode, the CRC engines capture all pixels, only active

- Display Controller
pixels, or only nonactive pixels. In “active only” mode, the CRC calculation ends at lasth&&lastv. In the other modes, CRC calculation ends at LoadV (including the LoadV pixel for units after the RG).
- In OneShot mode, only the “active only” mode is permitted because the vblank period is of
unpredictable size in this mode. CRCs registers can only be read with private level 3 to protect VPR information.
- CRC Sequence of Events
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Software defines a valid context DMA for the CRC notifier in SetContextDmaCrc. At the start of the next frame, Comp, RG, and the ORs start calculating CRCs. When CRCs are ready (after LoadV), the subunits assert crc_valid to FE. FE reads CRCB and stores the value. FE reads CRCA to determine if there was any error.
- Once Comp, RG, and the OR CRCs are collected for a given frame, FE writes the entry to the
CRC notifier. Repeat from step 2 until the CRC notifier ContextDMA is changed. 7.
- Error Conditions
If a subunit calculates a new CRC while the valid bit is still set for the previous CRC, it should set the CRCA_ERROR bit and not update the CRC value in CRCB. If FE sees that the ERROR bit is set when reading CRCA, it should log the error and stop collecting CRCs. Since the number of CRCs collected from each subunit may not match, the CRC collection could potentially hang if it tries to continue from this point.
##### 7.5.2.1.11 VPR
The Video Protected Region is a section of memory, which can be protected against reads or writes from various clients. When Display reads data from a VPR region, it must ensure that the data (including CRCs based on the pixel data) is never leaked to an insecure output.
#### 7.5.2.2 Clocks
- Table 7.105 Clock Summary
- Source
- Usage
- Clock Name
- Maximum
frequency (MHz)
- Interface clocks
sysclk_noeg
- SYSPLL
- ISO Interface, NISO Interface
axi2abp_clk
- Used for the register interface
dbb_disp_clk
- Used for the ISO and NISO interfaces

- Display Controller
- Source
- Usage
- Clock Name
- Maximum
frequency (MHz)
- Jtag_reg_clk
jtag_tck
- SOR IOBIST
- Pipeline clocks
dispclk
- SPPLL, DISPPLL
- Main clock for FE, precomp, comp, post-comp. The end of the
ISO Hub output pipeline uses dispclk. Input of RG is on dispclk. dsc_clk dispclk/3
- The DSC logic operates at three pixels per clock, so a clock that
is 1/3rd the rest of the pipeline is required. hubclk 385.7
- DISPHUBPLL,
- SPLL
- Main ISO Hub clock
rg*_pclk
- VPLL, xtal, PLLD
Pixel clock for the RGs. One per head.
- SOR clocks
sf*_clk sor*_clk, xtal,
- PLLD
Serial Formatter clock.
- For DisplayPort and HDMI, this uses the clock of the SOR that
the SF is attached to. For DSI, this uses pclk of the head. sor*_clk xtal, VPLLs, macro feedback clocks
- SOR clock. This is typically 1/10th of the link frequency. Link pad
macro generates this. For HDMI FRL, it is 1/12th the link frequency. sor*_ifp*_clk
- Macro feedback
clocks
- Used for one side of the SOR Async FIFOs connecting the SOR
core logic to the “fast” clocks near the macro. Runs at 1/20th the link frequency. link*_fast_clk
- Macro feedback
clocks
- Used in the “split” modules, which implement the SOR Link XBAR
muxing. link*_macro_cl k
- Macro feedback
clocks
- Connected to the SLOWCLK port of the Link pad macros. Should
be identical to link*_clk_fast.
- SOR macro
pclk reference
- Sor_pll_ref_clk
- VPLLs
The pixel clock reference source for the Link pad macros. Connects to the PCLK port.
- SOR macro
- DisplayPort
reference
- SPPLL0, SPPLL1
- The DisplayPort and HDMI FRL reference clock for the Link pad
macros. Connects to the DCLK ports. May be downspread for DisplayPort.
- DSI clocks
dsi_core_clk
- DSI PHY
- DSI core logic. Typically runs at I/O clk divided by 8 or 7
dsi_pixel_clk
- DSI PHY, VPLL,
- PLLD
Matches the pixel clock of the head. dsi_io_clk
- PLLD
- High-speed I/O clock of DSI pad
- Audio clocks

- Display Controller
- Source
- Usage
- Clock Name
- Maximum
frequency (MHz) aza_bitclk
- SPPLL0
- Main clock for the HDA codec logic and some of the AZA
controller logic. aza_2xbitclk
- SPPLL0
- Used in AZA controller
maudclk
- SPPLL0
- Used during the MAUD calculation in the HDA codec. A fast
enough clock is needed to drive DDA counters to emulate the 512*fs clock.
- Other
xtal 38.4
- Crystal reference
clock
- Used by FE to generate microsecond and millisecond reference
pulses for use within Display and PMGR. Display gates clocks to submodules, which are idle. Top-level clock enables are controlled in NV Clocks. Software must ensure that dispclk, hubclk, rg_pclk, sf_clk, sor_clk, and dsi_core_clk are enabled before programming display. The bundle bus requires some clock in order to pass bundles. Safe-clk (xtal) is fine for this purpose, but a higher clock may be desired to reduce programming time. Software must also ensure that all Display clocks are running when Display Reset is asserted. This requirement is new to NVD4.0 due to the transition to a sync-reset architecture.
##### 7.5.2.2.1 Dispclk and Hubclk Source Switching
The dispclk, hubclk, or both may need to change when there is a change to the display bandwidth requirement. The change in bandwidth could be due to the addition/removal of a new display or changing the configuration of current display (like adding/removing windows, scaling). When dispclk and hubclk are changed while display is active, the pixel flow to raster generator must be uninterrupted. Also, the adequate pixels must stored in various buffers to avoid display from underflowing. This section goes over current dispclk/hubclk policy and buffering requirements when these clocks switch. From the Display perspective, clocks should change dynamically without any dead cycles.
- While the PLLs (DISPPLL and HUBPLL) support this feature (called dynamic ramp), there are
discrete ranges of frequencies where this is possible to change without any dead cycle time. The
- VCO operating limits determine this. When the frequency change crosses from one range to
another different source or a temporary clock source is chosen while the PLL (PDIV) is changed to hit the new frequency range. After the clock is stable, we switch back to DISPPLL/HUBPLL. For every clock source switch, a dead cycle time of five clock cycles of source clock and five clock cycles of destination clock is incurred. Based on the clocking policy, there can be up to two switches per frame. The following is an example of various ranges achieved for PDIV values.
- Table 7.106 DISPPLL Output Ranges
- PDIV
- DISPCLK RANGE
[806.4, 1612.8]

- Display Controller
- PDIV
- DISPCLK RANGE
[403.2, 825.6] [268.8, 550.4]
- With HUBPLL/DISPPLL, if a fractional divider is used with dynamic ramp then the clock may
undershoot by up to 5% for several microseconds before settling to the final frequency. Since hiding such large duration requires significant buffering, there are two options. One is for software always to allocate clocks 5% faster than minimum required and another is only to use a linear divider with a dynamic ramp. Software will go with the latter.
##### 7.5.2.2.2 Hubclk
Clocking architecture does permit flexibility to use HUBPLL or a divided version of SPPLL. For the use cases of interest, we feel the level of granularity we get by generating from SPPLL is good enough and also helps save HUBPLL power. The current software policy is to have hubclk always derived from SPPLL by changing the PDIV. SPPLL is an always-running PLL at 2,700 MHz and for hubclk we would be using PDIV in [7,63]. As per PLL designers, whenever we change the PDIV value in [3,63] there will not be any dead cycles. Therefore, additional buffering due to hubclk changes will not occur.
**Figure 7.58 hubclk tree**
##### 7.5.2.2.3 Dispclk
- Similar to HUBCLK, SPPLL or DISPPLL can drive DISPCLK. Unlike hubclk, we cannot always
generate dispclk from SPPLL for frequencies of interest. In order to simplify software programming in NVIDIA Ampere Architecture, it was decided that if dispclk<=900 then we use SPPLL with a divider (PDIV) and for other cases we will use DISPPLL. Following the same strategy as NVIDIA Ampere Architecture implies that there is clock switch per frequency change. However, for some use cases that require dispclk in the 300 MHz, 500 MHz range, the granularity that we get from SPPPLL is too coarse. It can drive the minimum voltage of the chip higher. In some cases, this was as high as 40 mV.

- Display Controller
To avoid this increase in voltage, one must derive dispclk from DISPPLL. Based on the current and target dispclk frequency and taking into account PLL VCO requirements, this would imply that apart from changing the PLL settings MDIV and NDIV that permits dynamic ramp, the PDIV must be changed as well. If we change PDIV first and then program the DISPPLL, then we may run DISPCLK slower than expected frequency for a period of time (leading to underflow). If we change
- DISPPLL first and then program PDIV, then we may run clock much faster, violating voltage
requirements. To switch the DISPPLL PDIV, the following sequence must be followed: 1. Determine closest SPPLL linear divide frequency that is greater than or equal to the current dispclk frequency. If this frequency requires a higher chip voltage, then raise the voltage. Program the SPPLL divider for dispclk. Switch dispclk to the output of the SPPLL. Program DISPPLL to the required frequency. Switch dispclk to the output of DISPPLL. Reduce the voltage if possible. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. This sequence has two clock switches that will likely occur within a single frame. Display requires buffering to handle the dead cycles introduced by these switches. Software uses the NVIDIA Ampere Architecture approach (use SPPLL for any frequency <= 900 MHz), but has the flexibility of using a more efficient DISPPLL approach at a later point if product requires it. Therefore, the display design has been updated to buffer for two clock switches.
**Figure 7.59 Dispclk tree**
#### 7.5.2.3 Coordinate Systems
To understand the coordinate systems used by display and the associated settings, refer to the following text and diagram. There are three coordinate systems in display: 1. 2.
- Input: used to define regions inside surfaces as they are placed in memory
- Composition (desktop): used to define how windows are composed on the screen/desktop

- Display Controller
3. Output (or raster): for the actual output raster produced The main processing steps that affect how to translate between these coordinate systems are: Scaling: input domain is not scaled. The composition domain is scaled by window scalers.
- Cropping: windows may be partially off screen (as defined in composition domain) which
leads to cropped rectangles defining the visible portion. Those then have to be inverse-scaled to the input domain to find the corresponding source rectangle in the input domain. For window settings, only the input and composition domains are of interest. Since does not have an output scaler, the output domain and composition domain are actually the same. A viewport is a rectangle in desktop coordinate space that defines the portion of the desktop that is visible on a given head. By moving the viewport position, you can pan the head across the entire desktop space. A rectangle in desktop coordinate space defines the window size and position. The portion of the window that intersects with a viewport is visible on the corresponding Head, the rest is off-screen. Note that windows are not relative to viewports. Moving a viewport does not move the windows with it. The diagram shows an active raster (= viewport) in yellow, and a window (blue). The window has a surface associated with it (gray).

- Display Controller
**Figure 7.60 Active Raster**
The contents of the full window can be a rectangular subset of the full surface. The portion of the full window that is inside the viewport and thus visible is called the cropped window. Some relevant window settings are: SetPointIn.X/Y:

- Display Controller
This is the pixel/line offset into the window buffer of the top-left pixel of the full window (before cropping). SetPointIn always defines the top-left corner of the window in the buffer, regardless of scan out direction. Display hardware calculates the address of the corner where fetching must begin. SetSizeIn.Width/Height: This is the size of the full window, cropping and scaling, i.e. the size of the portion of the image buffer that is needed to draw the contents of the full window. SetPointOut.X/Y: This is the position of the full window relative to the desktop origin. If the viewport is placed at (0,0), which is typically done, then this is the same as window position relative to the raster origin. These values can be negative. SetSizeOut.Width/Height: This is the size of the full window in the desktop domain after scaling, but before cropping. For settings related to windows and window scaling, all those with "In" their names are in input domain, and all those with "Out" in their name are in desktop domain. Most of these settings have a corresponding cropped version, which reflects the values associated with the cropped window instead of the full window. These cropped settings are the ones that hardware actually needs.
##### 7.5.2.3.1 Window
A window is a region of the viewport that contains the contents of a surface (or multiple surfaces in the case of planar) from the FB. The window channel controls surface parameters. This includes states such as the buffer offset, input scaler parameters, and color format. Windows can be assigned to any Head. A window channel controls each window. There is one window channel per window supported by the class.
- Window Dimensions
As a general rule, input parameters are defined in the buffer's coordinate space that is relative to the first pixel defined by the window surface context DMA. Output parameters are defined in the composition coordinate space. Note:

- Display Controller Registers
For YUV windows, the fetch rectangle must begin at an even location in the surface and have an even size. This applies to all YUV formats, and both directions, regardless of the actual chroma subsampling. So it even applies to YUV444 surfaces. The final fetch rectangle is derived by the Precalc process. The public settings must be chosen or restricted such that the derived private settings for the fetch rectangle meet these "even" requirements for YUV windows, otherwise display does not operate correctly.
- Window Ownership
The window has an associated ownership state, which can have one of the following permitted values: none
- Head<i>; i=0..H-1
The ownership is a double buffered value. The actual current ownership is the active state value. The new (next) ownership is the assembly state value. Not all transitions are legal. A window ownership can be changed to none, or from none at all times. It can never be changed from Head<i> to Head<k> directly for any valid i and k with i≠k. A change of ownership always has to transition through the 'none' state. The ownership state of a window is part of the window's channel, and as such also falls under the access restrictions for that window (more later). If additional setup is needed related to this change in ownership, for example in ISO Hub shared resource control, such changes have to be made by driver. It must be updated/activated either at the same time or in some appropriate sequence to avoid resource problems during or after the completion of the change.

