# 7.7.2 Functional Descriptions

- The functional descriptions of the APE are detailed in the following sections based on
the functional blocks.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.2.1 Audio Digital Signal Processor
The Audio Digital Signal Processor (ADSP) is an Arm Cortex®-A9 version r4p1 processor, configured with an L1 I-Cache and an L1 D-Cache each of 32 KiB, and a 128 KiB L2 I/D shared Cache, plus the Arm NEON Advanced SIMD extensions. Its main functions are:
- Algorithm-based Audio Processing
- Audio Decoding and Encoding, e.g., MP3
- Managing and Scheduling the programming of registers in Hardware Accelerators
- Managing Interrupts originated from Hardware Accelerators with Low Latency
#### 7.7.2.2 Audio Hub
The Audio Hub (AHUB) comprises a collection of hardware accelerators for audio pre-processing and post-processing and a programmable full crossbar for routing audio data across these accelerators in time and in parallel. The main purpose of AHUB is to off load most repetitive tasks that do not require central decisions from the ADSP. The AHUB also supports multiple interfaces to different audio devices in the host system, e.g., cellular baseband, audio codecs, Bluetooth modules, A/V receivers, etc. The AHUB provides six
- Inter-IC Sound (I2S) Interfaces together with two Digital Speakers (DSPK) and four Digital
Microphone (DMIC) interfaces. Audio signals routed to the HDMI interface are not going through APE, however, but delivered by the HDA interface. Refer to the High Definition Audio (HDA) chapter in this TRM for more details. Besides supporting the multiple interfaces, the AHUB is also capable of handling all necessary protocols and signal quality requirements of these audio devices. The AHUB consists of the following key modules as depicted in the diagram below.
- Inter-IC Sound Controller (I2S)
- Digital MIC Controller (DMIC)
- Mixer
- Audio Multiplexer (AMX)
- Audio De-Multiplexer (ADX)
- Sampling Frequency Converter (SFC)
- Audio Flow Controller (AFC)
- Output Processing Engine (OPE)
- Master Volume Control (MVC)
- Audio Direct Memory Access Interface (ADMA I/F)
- Audio Radio Detection (ARAD)
- Arbitrary Sample Rate Conversion (ASRC)

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.62 AHUB Block Diagram**
The proprietary interface Audio Client Interface (ACIF) is employed to route audio samples through these accelerators and hence forms the fabric of AHUB. A switch called Audio Crossbar (AXBAR) is used to configure/modify the audio routing path between these accelerators. The accelerator modules and the audio routing are both configured via an AHUB Configuration (AHC) unit.
##### 7.7.2.2.1 Audio Client Interface
Audio streams are routed through the AHUB by interconnecting various modules using the ACIF. In the register programming, a receive ACIF is referred to as RxCIF, and a transmit ACIF is referred to as TxCIF.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- ACIF Protocol
Before a session starts, both Tx and Rx clients should know the frame length by their register configurations. The frame length is determined by the number of bits in each sample and the number of channels that the audio data carries. In the case of stereo audio data with 16 bit, a frame is 32 bits long. Whenever Tx has data available to transmit to the Rx, it raises the FSYNC signal. Simultaneously the first bit of the data is put out on the data bus. The Tx should hold this FSYNC active for at least one clock but until the Rx client is ready. Similarly, it should also hold the data bus to the first bit of the frame until the Rx client is ready. When the Rx asserts ready, the Tx should lower the FSYNC at the end of that clock cycle. From the next clock cycle, Tx should transmit the rest of the frame (from the second bit onwards), one bit for each bit clock. The figure below shows the transmission ordering of two-channel 8-bit audio data. Note that the bit ordering is each channel is big-endian.
**Figure 7.63 Bit Ordering**
- Frame Length
The frame length is a product of the bit width and the number of channels in an audio stream. The register fields of the Tx and Rx clients should be programmed accordingly before the transmission starts to avoid incorrect frame parsing.
- Clocking
Since all sessions are AHUB run under an AHUB clock, the clock should be fast enough to transmit audio stream data in all sessions. If a session is used for sending 8 kHz, stereo 16-bit audio stream, the AHUB clock should be at least 256 kHz. While a faster clock is better for data transmission, it is not necessarily good for power consumption. For the typical audio application like MP3 music playing, using the clock directly from the crystal without going through PLLs is recommended. Depending on the applications, users can program the clock registers to satisfy the requirement of clock frequency. The following table shows the various minimum clock frequencies for AHUB.
- Table 7.107 AHUB Clock Frequencies
This table shows the minimum clock frequencies required for various operating modes. Higher frequencies may also be used.
- Clock Frequency
- Description

