# 7.7.3 Programming Guidelines

@{Key=7.7.3; Title=Programming Guidelines; Body=This section describes the programming guidelines of APE.
#### 7.7.3.1 System Level Programming
Starting a use case:
- Enable modules from the tail end of the audio routing towards the source of the audio
routing. For example, when the audio samples are fetched from memory, mixed with system tones in the Mixer, and then played at the I2S, enable I2S first, followed by the Mixer, and then the ADMA Interface and ADMA. Ending a use case:
- Disable modules from the module nearest to the source towards the destination of the audio
routing. In the use case in the example above, disable ADMA first, followed by ADMA Interface, Mixer, and finally the I2S. 1. 2.
- The best practice to end a use case is to disable the module using <module>_ENABLE
register.
- Wait for (<module>_STATUS_0.ENABLE_STATUS == 0),
then move on to disable the next module a.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
b.
- Alternatively, instead of polling for (<module>_STATUS_0.ENABLE_STATUS == 0), software
can choose to use the TX_DONE Interrupt of every module. See the "Using Interrupts" subsection below for more details.
- Besides the above options a. and b., software can, for practical reasons, wait 20 mS after
getting a DMA TRANSFER_DONE Interrupt (as DMA is the source in most audio routings), then use the method described in option a. When an I2S/DMIC is the source of audio in
- AHUB, then software can wait 20 mS after checking for (I2S/DMIC ENABLE_STATUS == 0)
then use the method described in option a. c.
#### 7.7.3.2 Using Interrupts
- All AHUB modules have RX_DONE and TX_DONE Interrupts that can be used when ending a use
case. The procedure of using these Interrupts is:
- Write (<module>_XBAR_RX_INT_MASK = 0) and (<module>_XBAR_TX_INT_MASK = 0) to
unmask the Interrupt . All the TX_DONE, RX_DONE Interrupts are logically OR'ed and sent to the GIC as the ahub_err
- Interrupt. Hence the Interrupt service routine for ahub_err Interrupts needs to handle the
- TX_DONE/RX_DONE Interrupts
1. 2.
- Read (AHUB_INTR_STATUS_0_0) and (AHUB_INTR_STATUS_1_0) to check module(s) caused
the ahub_err to be asserted.
- In the identified module(s), Read (<module>_INT_STATUS) to find out which of the module's
Interrupts was fired. a. b.
#### 7.7.3.3 Programming Module RAMs
Modules like SFC and Mixer have internal RAMs to hold filter coefficients, configurations, etc. The following are the programming guidelines for writing into and reading from the RAMs: Writing to a single RAM location:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be written to>). Write ((<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) = <data to be written>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RW = 1). a. b. c. Writing sequentially to contiguous RAM locations:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.SEQ_ACCESS_EN = 1) to enable
automatic address advance (increment).
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be written to>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.ADDR_INIT_EN = 1). Write ((<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) = <data to be written>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RW = 1). a. b. c. d. e.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Repeat d. and e. for the every word that needs to be written to the RAM. f. Reading from a single RAM location:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be read from>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x,RW = 0). Read (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) to get the data). a. b. c. Reading sequentially from contiguous RAM locations:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.SEQ_ACCESS_EN = 1) to enable
automatic address advance (increment).
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be read from>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.ADDR_INIT_EN = 1). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RW = 0). Read (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) to get the data. Repeat steps 4. and 5. for every word that needs to be read from the RAM. a. b. c. d. e. f.
#### 7.7.3.4 AHUB Sub-modules Soft Reset Sequence
AHUB sub-modules support software reset. Soft reset resets FSM and state registers and flush the ACIF FIFOs. However, the effect of software reset on the sub-module Interrupt status register is not consistent across all the sub-modules. Some modules clear the Interrupt status register on soft reset but others do not. The following sequence can be used to ensure a consistent behavior. AHUB sub-module soft reset programming sequence: Disable all Interrupts of a sub-module. Handle and clear all pending Interrupts. Issue soft reset to the sub-module. Check for soft reset to get cleared (for this it needs client clock). Enable the module.
#### 7.7.3.5 Boot Sequence
##### 7.7.3.5.1 Cold Boot Sequence
The following steps are taken before bring ADSP out of reset. (Note: Unpower-gate of APE is not necessary because APE is not power-gated by default): 1. 2. CPU programs CAR with desired frequency.
- CPU enables clocks to APE through CAR module (Note: ADSP clocks must also be enabled
before releasing APE resets.)

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_APE_SET_0.SET_CLK_ENB_APE = 1) to
enable APE clock.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_V_SET_0.SET_CLK_ENB_APB2APE = 1) to
enable APB2APE clock.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0.SET_CLK_ENB_ADSPNEON = 1) to
enable ADSPNEON clock.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0.SET_CLK_ENB_ADSP = 1) to enable
ADSP Clock. 3.
- Re-enable APE MC clients
- Write (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1.APE_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0) to re-enable APE MC
clients. 4.
- CPU programs CAR and deasserts APE reset to ACONNECT, AAS, AMC, AGIC, AXIBRIDGE,
AMISC, REGDEC, AHUB, ADMA.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_CLR_0.CLR_SWR_APE_RST = ?) to deassert
APE reset. 5. 6. CPU programs AGIC registers to set the Interrupt routing.
- CPU configures ADSP and L2 cache controller through programming the configuration
registers in AMISC. CPU downloads the ADSP boot code to DRAM.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0.CLR_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST = 1) to
deassert ADSPINTF_RST. Initialize ADAST/ACAST, EVP, AMC config, ADSP config, and AGIC secure registers in AMISC. 7. 8. 9.
- Program the EVP registers in AMC. Reset vector of EVP points to the start of the boot
code. - - - -
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RESET_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_UNDEF_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_SWI_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_VEC_0,
0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_VEC_0 ,
0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RSVD_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_IRQ_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_FIQ_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RESET_ADDR_0 , <<RESET
- VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_UNDEF_ADDR_0 ,
<<UNDEFINDED VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_SWI_ADDR_0 , <<SWI
- VECTOR>>);
- - - - - - -

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
-
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_ADDR_0,
<<PREFETCH ABORT VECTOR>>0xc);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_ADDR_0 ,
<<DATA ABORT VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RSVD_ADDR_0 ,
<<RESERVED>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_IRQ_ADDR_0 , <<IRQ
- VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_FIQ_ADDR_0 , <<FIQ
- VECTOR>>);
- - - - Program ADAST and ACAS. Configure AGIC secure registers in AMISC. 10.
- Write the settings bits in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0 atomically, to
deassert ADSP resets:
- CLR_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSP _RS
- Note: There should about six ADSP clocks of delay between releasing ADSP resets and
releasing of ADSP_INTERFACE_RST. 11. ADSP fetches reset vector from AMC and jumps to the boot code.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.75 ADSP Boot Flow**

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.6 Power Management Sequence
##### 7.7.3.6.1 Power Gating
Before power gating, APE states should be saved into DRAM. ADSP L1 and L2 are flushed. Power Gating Sequence: 1. 2. CPU requests ADSP to power gate. Request could come from mailbox.
- If ADSP is not ready to be power gated, it sends "not ready" message to CPU. Otherwise,
continue.
- ADSP shuts OFF all activities in AHUB and ADMA. It makes sure there is no outstanding
request in ADMA. It is recommended that CPU does not access APE registers after asking
- ADSP to be power gated and does not send more Interrupts to ADSP. It could unexpectedly
interrupt ADSP and divert it from the shut down process. ADSP saves all states and restore information to DRAM. ADSP flushes L1 and L2 cache. ADSP disables Interrupts to itself. Diverts Interrupts to CPU if appropriate. ADSP make sure there are no outstanding activities.
- ADSP executes WFI/WFE. WFI is recommended because it makes sure there is no
outstanding transaction in Cortex-A9.
- CPU sees the Interrupt from ADSP STANDBYWFI/STANDBYWFE signals. CPU reads the AGIC
status register and makes sure STANDBYWFI or STANDBYWFE is asserted.
- CPU read AMISC register to make sure L2_IDLE and L2_CLKSTOPPED of
- AMISC_ADSP_STATUS_0 are asserted
- Flush APE MCCIF
3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11.
- Set APE_FLUSH_ENABLE field in register MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1
- Poll APE_HOTRESET_STATUS field in register MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_1 for flush
done 12.
- Enable clamps
- Assert clamps by writing to PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_CLAMP_CONTROL_0 with (CLAMP =
- ON)
Insert 100 nS delay for clamps to engage. 13.
- CPU asserts reset through CAR
- Assert APE Reset. SET_SWR_APE_RST of CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_SET
register
- Assert ADSP resets. Set the following in the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_SET
register: - - -
- SET_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- - - - -
- SET_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSP_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPCSITEPTM_RST
14. 15. Wait for nine clocks to compensate for reset and clock latencies. CPU disables APE clocks.
- Disable APE clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_APE_CLR_0
- Disable APB2APE clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_APB2APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_V_CLR_0
- Disable ADSPNEON clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_ADSPNEON in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_CLR_0
- Disable ADSP Clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_ADSP in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_CLR_0
16.
- Power gate APE
Single Write to PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with: - - - - - (LOGIC_SLEEP == ON) (SRAM_SLEEP == ON) (SRAM_RET == OFF_) (INTER_PART_DELAY_EN == ENABLE) (START == 1) Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit (START == DONE). Read PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that: - - - - (LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON) (SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON) (SRAM_RET_STS == OFF) If there is a mismatch, flag error.
##### 7.7.3.6.2 Power Ungating
- Power Ungating sequence is the same as cold boot. To restore the ADSP context, CPU sends a
message to ADSP, with pointers where the context information is saved. General sequence:
- Set partition power state to PUG
- Enable clocks
Assert resets (resets might be deasserted during enable clocks. This step ensures the states are reset.)

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Release clamping
- Deassert resets
- Clear MC flush request
Detailed sequence: 1.
- Unpower-gate on APE if not already in power up state, Single Write to
PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with: (LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF) (SRAM_SLEEP = OFF) (SRAM_RET = OFF) (INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE) (START = 1) Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit (START == DONE). Read PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that: (LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF) (SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF) (SRAM_RET_STS == OFF)
- If there is mismatch, flag error
2. 3. Repeat Steps 2 and 3 of cold boot sequence to enable clocks. CPU asserts reset through CAR.
- Assert APE Reset. SET_SWR_APE_RST of CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_SET
register
- Assert ADSP resets. Set the following in the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_SET
register - - - - - - -
- SET_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSP_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST
4. Remove clamps. Write to (PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = OFF).
- Insert 100 nS delay for clamps to engage
5. 6. Repeat Steps 4 to 9, 11, 12 of the Cold Boot Sequence to deassert Reset and initialize APE. CPU sends restore commands, which has pointers to the saved data, to ADSP.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.7 SC7 Entry and Exit
Before entering SC7 Entry, APE registers and states are saved to memory. Software device driver is responsible for saving non-secure critical information and restoring them during SC7 exit. BPMP is responsible for saving and restoring secure critical states. It is assumed that BPMP-FW provides the security measure to protect secure sensitive APE contexts. The secure registers and states that require BPMP to save and restore are:
- All EVP registers in AMC (Addr: 0x299_3700 to 0x299 _373c, and 0x299_3000)
- AMC_EVP_RESET_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_UNDEF_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_SWI_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_RSVD_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_IRQ_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_FIQ_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_RESET_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_UNDEF_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_SWI_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_RSVD_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_IRQ_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_FIQ_ADDR_0
- Followed by writing '1' to EVP_LOCK in AMC_CONFIG_0 to lock
- All AST_CONTROL, AST_STREAMID_CTL, and region 0-7 registers in ACAST and ADAST. Lock
bit are properly accordingly.
- ACAST address range: 0x0299_4000 to 0x0299_41F8
- ADAST address range: 0x0299_6000 to 0x0299_61F8
ADSP Configuration registers: MAXCLKLATENCY, CLUSTERID, VINITHI in AMISC_ADSP_CONFIG_0 register. AMISC_ADSP_PERIPHASE_0 register. AMISC_ADSP_L2_CONFIG_0 register. AMISC_ADSP_L2_REGFILEBASE_0 register.
- AMISC_ADSP_AGIC_CONFIG_0 register
- Write 1 to ADSP field of AMISC_CONFIG_LOCK_0 to lock
In summary, address: 0x0299_0004 to 0x0299_0014, and 0x0299_01C.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
All AMISC_KEYSLOTS* registers in AMISC:
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_NS_0
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY0_*
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY1_*
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY2_*
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY3_*
AMISC_KEYSLOTS_NS_0 are properly set after keyslot values are restored. Address range: 0x0299_007c to 0x0299_00bf
##### 7.7.3.7.1 SC7 Exit Sequence
Note: Unpower-gate of APE is not necessary because APE is not power-gated by default. 1. 2.
- CPU programs CAR with desired frequency
- CPU enable clocks to APE through CAR module (Note: ADSP clocks must also be enabled
before releasing APE Resets)
- Enable APE clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_APE_SET_0
- Enable APB2APE clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_APB2APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_V_SET_0
- Enable ADSPNEON clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_ADSPNEON in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0
- Enable ADSP Clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_ADSP in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0
3.
- Re-enable APE MC clients
- Clear APE_FLUSH_ENABLE field in register MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1
4.
- CPU programs CAR and deassert APE reset to ACONNECT, AAS, AMC, AGIC, AXIBRIDGE,
- AMISC, REGDEC, AHUB, ADMA
- Deassert APE reset by writing to CLR_SWR_APE_RST field in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_CLR_0
5.
- Restore EVP, ACAST, ADAST, ADSP configuration, AMISC_ADSP_AGIC_CONFIG_0 and Keyslot
registers securely as described above. Software restores all the APE registers and states. This can be done insecurely.
- Deassert ADSPINTF_RST by writing '1' to CLR_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST of
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0
- Write the settings bits in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0 atomically, to
deassert ADSP resets: 6. 7. 8.
- CLR_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- CLR_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSP_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPCSITEPTM_RST
- Note: There should about six ADSP clocks of delay between releasing ADSP resets and
releasing ADSP_INTERFACE_RST)
- ADSP fetches reset vector from AMC and jumps to the boot code
#### 7.7.3.8 AAS Programming Guidelines
- The AAS starts functioning right out of reset. No programming is needed. When an error is
asserted, read the INT_STATUS register to check for Interrupt status. Write a '1' to INT_STATUS_CLR to clear the corresponding Interrupt status bit. When INT_STATUS is asserted, register ERROR_RESPONSE and ERROR_ADDRESS capture the information about the error status.
#### 7.7.3.9 ACIF Programming Guidelines
The following programming guidelines are common for the ACIF registers in all AHUB modules. The programming guidelines of the respective modules refers to this subsection when it comes to programming the ACIF registers.
- Set the XBAR_CHANNELS field to the number of channels in the input or output stream of a
module, depending on the direction.
- Set the CLIENT_CHANNELS field to the number of channels of the stream as dealt with
inside the module. This setting is different from XBAR_CHANNELS only when a conversion of the number of channels of an audio stream is desired. Similarly, set the XBAR_BITS and CLIENT_BITS fields.
- If XBAR_BITS and CLIENT_BITS do not match, the EXPAND and TRUNCATE fields are used to
determine how to transition from XBAR_BITS to CLIENT_BITS (in the case of receive) or from
- CLIENT_BITS to XBAR_BITS (in the case of transmit). Expanding always results in the actual
data being shifted to the MSB bits and the rest filled with zeros, ones, or some random bits from an LFSR. TRUNCATE can be set to chopping or rounding.
- For the ADMA interface, if packing of data in the TxCIF is desired, use PACK8_ENABLE or
- PACK16_ENABLE. Similarly, If unpacking of data in the receive interface is desired, use
UNPACK8_ENABLE or UNPACK16_ENABLE.
- If XBAR_CHANNELS and the CLIENT_CHANNELS are different, the STEREO_CONV field is
used to determine how a stereo stream is converted to a mono stream, and the MONO_CONV field is used to determine how a mono stream is converted to a stereo stream. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.10 I2S Controller Programming Guidelines
I2S transmit and receive directions can be independently enabled/disabled and controlled. Ensure that the I2S Tx/Rx is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case):
- Check if (I2S_AXBAR_RX/TX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0)
1.
- Configure the I2S Tx/Rx path
2.
- Configure CIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines" for more details)
- Populate I2S_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL, I2S_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL
a.
- Configure the I2S to operate in the mode of choice
3.
- Refer to the "Programming I2S to Operate in Various Modes" section about programming
I2S in different modes. a. Select the sampling rate indirectly by setting the channel bit count. Use the "I2S Sampling
- Rate Selection" section to find the correct value for this register
- Configure I2S_TIMING_CHANNEL_BIT_CNT
b.
- If I2S module is not already in the enabled state, enable the module
4. Set (I2S_ENABLE = 1). a.
- Enable the I2S receive and/or transmit directions
5. Set (I2S_AXBAR_RX_ENABLE = 1), (I2S_AXBAR_TX_ENABLE = 1). a.
- Ensure that the enabling is complete
6. Ensure (I2S_AXBAR_RX/TX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). a.
- After using the module, disable the module
7. Set (I2S_AXBAR_RX_ENABLE = 0), (I2S_AXBAR_TX_ENABLE = 0). a.
##### 7.7.3.10.1 I2S Sampling Rate Selection
The channel_bit_cnt can be calculated using the equation: channel_bit_cnt = (frequency of bit_clk) / (C * required sampling rate) - 1 Where C is 2 for LRCK modes and 1 for FSYNC modes. If this calculation returns a fractional value, use the non-symmetry feature of the controller to attain the required sampling rate. In that case, the channel_bit_cnt value should be programmed with an integer that is closest to the fraction, but less than the fraction. The table below contains examples for common sampling rates with CLK_SOURCE_I2S = 24 MHz:

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Table 7.112 Common Sampling Rates (CLK_SOURCE_I2S = 24 MHz)
- I2S_NEW_TIMING[12:0] (Mark-space Ratio = Left_channel : Right channel)
- Samplin
g Rate
- CLK_DIVISOR = 3
- BIT_CLK = 6 MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 5
- BIT_CLK = 4 MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 7
- BIT_CLK = 3 MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 1
- BIT_CLK = 12
- MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 0
- BIT_CLK = 24
- MHz
8 kHz 0x05db 0x02ed 0x0176 0x00f9 0x10bb (1500:1500) (750:750) (375:375) (250:250) (187:188) 32 kHz 0x0176 0x10bb
- Not supported
0x103e
- Not supported
(375:375) (187:188) (62:63)
## 44.1 kHz
0x010f 0x0087 0x0043 0x002c 0x0021 (272:272) (136:136) (68:68) (45:45) (34:34) 48 kHz 0x00f9 0x007c 0x103e
- Not supported
- Not supported
(250:250) (125:125) (62:63) 96 kHz 0x007c 0x103e 0x101f
- Not supported
- Not supported
(125:125) (62:63) (31:32) Note:
- Ideally, any sampling rate can be generated, either accurately or approximately with any
clk_src selected for I2S, if the clk_divisor and the channel_bit_cnt are programmed accordingly.
- The NON_SYM.EN feature is meant to create the sampling rates approximately by realizing an
odd bit rate with a non-50:50 mark/space ratio. However, if the bit rate (2*channel_bit_cnt) itself is a fraction, the resultant sampling rate is not accurate. The entries shown as not supported in the above table are attributed to such a deviation. When the channel_bit_cnt is less than 32, the bit_size should be programmed to be less than channel_bit_cnt.
- Programming I2S to Operate in Various Modes
After the module initialization (reset and clock programming), program the corresponding bits of the following registers.
- Table 7.113 I2S Programming for Various Modes
- Register
- Basic
- LJM
- RJM
- DSP
- PCM
- NW
- TDM
- I2S_CTRL_FRAME_FORMAT
- I2S_CTRL_LRCK_POLARITY

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Register
- Basic
- LJM
- RJM
- DSP
- PCM
- NW
- TDM
- I2S_CTRL_CHANNEL_BIT_CNT
# of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel (# of bits in left channel + right channel) # of bit clocks per frame # of bit clocks per frame # of bit clocks per frame 0: Long Fsync
- TX_DATA_OFFSET
(CHANNEL_BIT_CNT -
- BITS_PER_SAMPLE)
0/1/2 1: Short Fsync 0: Long Fsync
- RX_DATA_OFFSET
(CHANNEL_BIT_CNT -
- BITS_PER_SAMPLE)
0/1/2 1: Short Fsync 0: Short Fsync
- I2S_CTRL_FSYNC_WIDTH
# of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel
- Bits per
sample (slot size) 1: Long Fsync
- HIGHZ_CTRL
0/1/2
- EDGE_CTRL
- I2S_SLOT_CTRL_TOTAL_SLOTS
0 to 15
- SLOT_ENABLES
0x01 0x01 0x01 0x03 0x01
- Note 1
- Note 2
Note 1: In NW mode, there can only be one active slot. So 0x01, 0x02, 0x04, 0x08 are allowed values. Note 2: In TDM mode, there is no restriction on what or how many slots are enabled. The only restriction on the programming sequence is that all other registers must be programmed first before the Tx/Rx channels are enabled (which is done by setting XFER_EN_TX/XFER_EN_RX).
- Programming I2S to Work in Loopback Mode
1. Set the (I2S_CTRL_LPBK = 1). The rest of the programming is the same as if I2S is not in the loopback mode.
#### 7.7.3.11 DMIC Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.11.1 Minimum Required Guidelines
1. Ensure that the DMIC is in a disabled state (after being used previously):
- Check if (DMIC_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0)
Configure the DMIC: 2. a.
- Configure TxCIF parameters
- Populate DMIC_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers
Configure the OSR:
- Populate DMIC_CTRL_OSR register
b.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
3.
- Enable the DMIC module
Set (DMIC_ENABLE = 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (DMIC_ENABLE = 0). 4. It is mandatory to program client bits of TxCIF to 24 bit as algorithm works in 24-bit mode. AXBAR bits can be programmed as per requirement.
##### 7.7.3.11.2 Optional Guidelines
While configuring the DMIC controller (step 2 of the section above) one can choose to configure the following optional features: 1.
- Configure whether to receive the left channel data followed by right channel data or the
other way around: Use the DMIC_CTRL_LRSEL_POLARITY register field. Configure whether to receive data in both left and right channels or just the left channel or the right channel:
- Use the DMIC_CTRL_CHANNEL_SELECT register field
DMIC has three filters in the data path, namely the DC removal filter, Sinc Correction filter and a generic low pass filter. These can be enabled using bits DCR_ENABLE, SC_ENABLE,
- LP_ENABLE respectively, in the register DMIC_DBG_CTRL_0
2. 3. a.
- Each filter is made up of one or two biquads. Each filter has a filter gain in signed Q23
format configurable using the register <Filter_name>_FILTER_GAIN_0
- Associated with each biquad are five registers, namely
<Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_0_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_1_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_2_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_3_0, and <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_4_0 (all in signed Q23 format). They correspond to biquad coefficients b0, b1, b2, a1, a2. Coefficent a0, of course, is assumed to be 1. b.
#### 7.7.3.12 Mixer Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.12.1 Guidelines for Programming Mixer Inputs
In general, the Mixer's inputs are all independent of each other. The programming guidelines are given for configuring and using a generic input. The guidelines are applicable for any of the Mixer's inputs. 1. Configure the CIF parameters. Populate the register MIXER_AXBAR_RX <i>_CIF_CTRL.
- Make gain application related configurations (see Programming Gain Application below.)
- Make peak value related configuration
- Configure the register MIXER_AXBAR_RX<i>_PEAK_CTRL
- Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10
2. 3.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.3.12.2 Guidelines for Programming Mixer Outputs
1. Ensure the output to be used is in a disabled state (After being used in the previous use case) Check if (MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0).
- Configure the adder associated with this output by enabling which inputs to be used with
this adder
- Populate the register MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_ADDER_CONFIG
- Ensure that the Mixer module is in an enabled state
- Check if (MIXER_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1)
2. 3. a.
- If not, enable the Mixer module
Set (MIXER_ENABLE = 1).
- Ensure the module is done initializing
Check if (MIXER_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). b. 4.
- Enable the Mixer output
Set (MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_ENABLE = 1).
- Note: j = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5
##### 7.7.3.12.3 Programming Gain Application
All gain-related configurations reside in a RAM as shown below.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.76 Gain Configurations in RAM**
- To write values into this RAM, one must use the AHUBRAMCTL_GAIN_CONFIG_RAM_CTRL,
- AHUBRAMCTL_GAIN_CONFIG_RAM_DATA. Refer to the Programming Module RAMs subsection for
programming guidelines on writing/reading RAM locations. The programming sequence for writing new gain parameters is:

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Make sure the hardware is not in the middle of updating its internal variables with the old set of gain related parameters:
- Ensure (MIXER_AXBAR_RX<i>_STATUS_CNFG_BUSY == 0), where i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or
10. Program new gain value corresponding to other parameters if needed. Write to 0xf offset register to trigger the hardware to start using a new set of values. 1. 2. 3. Note:
- The 'Duration_inv_1byN3' should be calculated by software from the value of
'Duration_N3' (N3) as follows: Duration_inv_1byN3 =(1 / N3) * 2 prescalar * 2 31 , where prescalar = 6. a.
- Polynomial coefficients (Cn_p*-*, offset is 0x0 to 0x8)
Data formats: Q8.24 (2's complement). Range: -128 to 128-2-24 . b. Gain value's data formats: Q16.16 (2's complement). Range: -32768 to 32768-2-16 . c.
##### 7.7.3.12.4 Reading Peak Values
The peak value statuses are available in a RAM as shown below.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.77 Peak Values**
- To read a value from this RAM, one must use the registers AHUBRAMCTL_PEAKM_CTRL and
- AHUBRAMCTL_PEAKM_DATA. Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for
programming guidelines on writing/reading RAM locations.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.13 AMX Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.13.1 Mandatory Guidelines
1.
- Ensure that the AMX is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case)
Check (AMX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the AMX. 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see the "ACIF Programming
- Guidelines" section for more details
- Populate AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL0, AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL1,
- AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL2,
AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL3 and AMX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Enable the inputs that are used for making the output frame
Use register fields AMX_CTRL_RX<i>_EN, where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
- Program the byte RAM map
Use AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL and AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA registers.
- Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for programming guidelines on
reading RAM locations.
- Program the "wait-on" conditions for AMX
- Configure the AMX_CTRL_RX_DEP, AMX_CTRL_MSTR_RX_NUM register fields
- Configure which of the bytes in the output stream contain data
- Configure the AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN0 register for the LSB 32 bytes and the
AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN1 register for the MSB 32 bytes. b. c. d. e. 3. Enable the AMX module. Set (AMX_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module is done initializing before sending data to it. Ensure (AMX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module. Set (AMX_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.
##### 7.7.3.13.2 Optional Guidelines
1. Configure AMX to stop accepting new input frames right after an input is disabled (otherwise
- AMX waits until all the continuous incoming frames are received and then disables)
Set field(s) ( AMX_CTRL.RX<i>_FORCE_DISABLE = ENABLE ), where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
- For auto disable and auto enable feature, program the IDLE count first in
- RX<i>_CTRL_FRAME_PERIOD_0_IDLE_CNT register, where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4, then program
AMX_CYA_0 [0]. Both need be performed before enabling AMX.
- Note: Refer to the "Common Programming Guidelines" section for information on using some
optional features in the AMX (and all other modules).
- Configure Audio CIF control registers AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH0_CTRL,
- AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH1_CTRL, AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH2_CTRL, AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH3_CTRL, and
2. 3.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- AMX_AUDIOCIF_OUT_CTRL according to the guidelines given in the "ACIF Programming
Guidelines" subsection.
- Configure the CH_DEP parameter field in the AMX_CTRL_0 register to determine whether to
wait for all enabled channels to have data before transfer or start sending the data when any one of the input channels has data (WT_ON_ALL and WT_ON_ANY).
- Configure the MSTR_CH_NUM register for designated master channel, so that if the data is
available on a particular channel, the output can be sent.
- Enable the AMX output by setting BYTE_EN in AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN0 and
AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN1. For Byte RAMCTL programming: 4. 5. 6. 7.
- For programming RAM with the HW_ADR_EN bit cleared in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register, set the RAM Offset in the RAM_ADR field of the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register and set data in the DATA field in the
AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA register.
- For programming RAM with the HW_ADR_EN bit set in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register, set the RAM Offset in the RAM_ADR field of the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register to 0 and set data in the DATA field in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA register. Hardware auto-increments the RAM_ADR after
each write.
- Write sequence for single location write (NOT in burst/sequential)
1.
- Set address in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0; make sure that (SEQ_ACCESS_EN == 0) for
single write/read (NOT in burst).
- Set RW field in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0
- Set ADDR_INIT_EN field - optional for write
Program (AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA_0 = data to write). 2. 3. 4. Read sequence for single location read (NOT in burst/sequential): 1.
- Set address in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0; make sure that (SEQ_ACCESS_EN == 0) for
single write/read (NOT in burst).
- Reset RW field in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0
- Set ADDR_INIT_EN field
- Read the data from AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA_0
2. 3. 4.
#### 7.7.3.14 ADX Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.14.1 Mandatory Guidelines
1. Ensure that the ADX is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (ADX_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the ADX: 2.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters; see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details.
- Populate ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL0, ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL1,
- ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL2,
ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL3 and ADX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL registers. Enable the inputs that are used for making the output frame: Use register fields ADX_CTRL_TX<j>_EN, where j = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Program the byte RAM map:
- Use ADX_AUDIORAMCTL_ADX_CTRL and ADX_AUDIORAMCTL_ADX_DATA registers. Refer
to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for programming guidelines on reading RAM locations. Configure which of the bytes in the input stream contain data:
- Configure the ADX_IN_BYTE_EN0 register for the LSB 32 bytes and the ADX_IN_BYTE_EN1
register for the MSB 32 bytes. b. c. d. 3. Enable the ADX module: Set (ADX_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module is done initializing. Poll (ADX_STATUS.ENABLE _STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (ADX_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.
##### 7.7.3.14.2 Optional Guidelines
- Configure ADX to stop generating new input frames right after an output is disabled
(otherwise ADX waits until all the continuous incoming frames are received and then disables) Set field(s) ( ADX_CTRL_0.TX<j>_FORCE_DISABLE = ENABLE), where j = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
#### 7.7.3.15 SFC Programming Guidelines
1. Ensure that the SFC is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (SFC_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the SFC: 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details) Populate SFC_AXBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL and SFC_AXBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Configure input/output sampling frequencies
Populate SFC_AXBAR_RX_FREQ_FS_IN and SFC_AXBAR_TX_FREQ_FS_OUT registers. b. 3.
- There are hardcoded coefficients for commonly used frequency conversions (see below). But
for other frequency conversions, the software must program filter coefficients. Furthermore, optionally, even for the common use cases, the software may choose to program the filter coefficients. Note that the coefficients are in Q23 number format (1 sign bit and 23 fractional bits). a. Set (SFC_COEF_RAM_0.COEF_RAM_EN = 1).

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Program the RAM via SFC_AHUBRAMCTL_SFC_CTRL_0 and
- SFC_AHUBRAMCTL_SFC_DATA_0. Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection
for how to program any RAM in an AHUB module. b. Enable the SFC module: Set SFC_ENABLE to 1. Ensure the module initialization is done before sending data to SFC: Ensure (SFC_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (SFC_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5. 6.
##### 7.7.3.15.1 Commonly Used Frequency Conversions
8 to 44.1 kHz 8 to 48 kHz 16 to 44.1 kHz 16 to 48 kHz
## 44.1 to 8 kHz
## 44.1 to 16 kHz
48 to 8 kHz 48 to 16 kHz
#### 7.7.3.16 AFC Programming Guidelines
Ensure that the AFC is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (AFC_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the AFC: 1. 2.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details) Populate AFC_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL and AFC_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Configure the maximum expected PPM difference between the two clock sources that AFC
is used to control the flow between Configure the AFC_CLK_PPM_DIff register. a. b.
- Configure the I2S FIFO thresholds and AFC TxCIF thresholds that are used by the AFC logic
Configure the AFC_CLK_PPM_DIff register*. c. Enable the AFC module: Set (AFC_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module initialization is complete before sending data to AFC: Ensure (AFC_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (AFC_ENABLE = 0). 3. 4. 5.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
The following table shows the guidelines to follow for setting the threshold values under various conditions. In the table below, the numbers in parentheses are example values.
- Table 7.114 Threshold Settings
- AFC_THRESHOLDS_I2S_0
- AFC_THRESHOLDS_AFC_0
- Destination I2S
- FIFO Threshold
(Programmed in
- I2S_AUDIOCIF_I2
SRX_CTRL_0.
- FIFO_THRESHOL
D)
- Use
- Cas
e
- HIGH_THRE
- SHOLD
- START_TH
- RESHOLD
- LOW_THRE
- SHOLD
- HIGH_THRE
- SHOLD
- START_TH
- RESHOLD
- LOW_THRE
- SHOLD
- Actu
al (Typ .)
- Valu
e
- I2S
→
- AFC
→
- I2S
(START_THR
- ESHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRE
- SHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0 (8)
- I2S
→
- SFC
→
- AFC
→
- I2S
(2 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 2)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0
- I2S
→
- AFC
→
- AMX
→
- I2S
(START_THR
- ESHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRE
- SHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0 (8)
- I2S
→
- SFC
→
- AFC
→
- AMX
→
- I2S
(2 * SRC-
- BURST +1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 2)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST)
(2 * SRC-
- BURST + 4)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 4)
(4) (START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0
#### 7.7.3.17 OPE Programming Guidelines
- Ensure that OPE is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case)
Check if (OPE_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure OPE: 1. 2.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details) Populate OPE_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL and OPE_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Configure MBDRC and PEQ
b. 3. Enable OPE module: Set (OPE_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module initialization is complete before sending data to MBDRC: Ensure (OPE_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (OPE_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5. If an output device is changing, or the coefficients and other settings need to be changed: 1. 2. Disable OPE.
- Wait for (OPE_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0) for datapath flushed out, or OPE_SOFT_RESET
if immediate disable is needed. Reprogram all coefficients and configuration registers as required. Trigger OPE_SOFT_RESET. Enable OPE as before. 3. 4. 5. Note: Coefficient Data programmed takes care of the signs, i.e., hardware will always do add, so to implement a BiQuad operation: b0 * x[n] + b1 * x[n-1] + b2 * x[n-2] + (-a1) * y[n-1] + (-a2) * y[n-2]. Software needs to provide b0, b1, b2, -a1, -a2 as the coefficients.
#### 7.7.3.18 MVC Programming Guidelines
1. Ensure that the MVC is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (MVC_STATUS == 0). Configure the MVC: 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details). Program MVC_CONFIG registers.
- Program all Volume related settings (Target Volume, Duration, Polynomial Coefficients in
Polynomial mode). b. c. 3. Enable MVC module: Set (MVC_ENABLE = 1).
- Ensure the module initialization is complete before sending data to MVC: Ensure
MVC_STATUS is 1. After using the module, disable the module: Set (MVC_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
If software wants to change polynomial coefficients, duration parameters, or volume parameters (target volume and mute_unmute) on the fly while MVC is in enable state: 1. 2. Check the status of switching: COEFF_SWITCH, DURATION_SWITCH and VOLUME_SWITCH.
- Program new parameters (For coefficient switching, hardware handles whether that goes to
Ping or Pong).
- Set COEFF_SWICTH/DURATION_SWITCH/VOLUME_SWITCH to let hardware know new
parameters are ready. 3.
**Figure 7.78 Programming Timeline for Updated Software Configuration**
- Note: If software wants to program polynomial coefficients, duration parameters and volume
parameters at the same time, then software should first program all the required fields for polynomial coefficients, duration parameters, and volume parameters, then set COEFF_SWITCH, DURATION_SWITCH, and VOLUME SWITCH together (they all belong to the same register). If an output device is changing, or the settings need to be changed: 1. 2. 3. 4. Disable the MVC. Reprogram all registers. Trigger Soft Resets for MVC and CIFs. Enable – in same order above. If the software is changing parameters while MVC is in disable state, following points should be kept in consideration: 1.
- If software wants to retain history between disable and enable stages, then when software
disables the MVC, it should also set the INIT_VOL register to the last set Volume value by software. Examples: a.
- If software sets the volume to T1 and then disables the module, INIT_VOL should be set to
T1.
- If software sets the volume to T1, then press Mute button and then disables the module,
INIT_VOL should be set to T1.
- If software sets the volume to T1 and then disables the module, INIT_VOL should be set to
- T1. Now if during the disable stage, if software changes the volume to T2, INIT_VOL should
b. c.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
be set to T2 Exception: The only exception to the above case is if the last set volume was 0. If the last set volume was 0, then the INIT_VOL register should be set to the INIT_VOL during boot-up. 2.
- If software unmutes a channel while in the disabled stage, it needs to update the
TARGET_VOL register to the last set volume value by software.
#### 7.7.3.19 DSPK Programming Guidelines
- DSPK Controller Programming
1. Ensure that DSPK is in disabled state (after being used in previous use case). Check if (DSPK_STATUS.RX_ENABLED == 0). Apply soft-reset to DSPK to flush out all the FIFOs. (DSPK_SOFT_RESET.SOFT_RESET = 1). Program CIF CTRL register. Configure DSPK_RX_CIF_CTRL register. Only mono and stereo channels are supported. Program DSPK_CORE CTRL register.
- Configure STAGE1_GAIN, STAGE2_GAIN, STAGE3_GAIN, LOWDELAY_FILTER_MODE,
CHANNEL_SELECT, OSR and LRSEL_POLARITY bits. Program SDM COEF registers.
- Based on the value of OSR, program these registers appropriately. Specific values are
mentioned in next column. Enable the Module. Program (DSPK_ENABLE = 1). Disable the Module. After using, disable dspk. (DSPK_ENABLE = 0). Wait for module to get disabled. Poll for (RX_DONE == 1); wait until it is asserted. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8.
- CODEC Programming
1. Program DSPK_CODEC_CTRL register. Configure CHANNEL_SELECT for either mono/stereo channels. Configure BIT_ORDER to specify LSB/MSB bit to be sent first. Configure (CODEC_CONFIG_MODE = 1). Configure CNFG_REP_NUM for repetition number. Program DSPK_CODEC_DATA register. Configure CH1_CONTROL_WORD and CH0_CONTROL_WORD. Enable dspk module. Program (DSPK_ENABLE = 1). Enable CODEC_ENABLE bit. Program (CONFIG_START = 1). Wait until codec programming is done. Poll for CONFIG_DONE bit. 2. 3. 4. 5.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
6. Disable CODEC_CONFIG mode.
- DSM Coefficients Programming for Different OSR's
- Table 7.115 DSM Coefficients for Different OSR's
- DSMCOEFS_5_256
- DSMCOEFS_5_128
- DSMCOEFS_5_64
- DSMCOEFS_5_32
a = [a2,a3,a4,a5] [5208,7652,11087,158 85] [5268,7819,11157,170 72] [5051,7359,10711,142 10] [4935,7489,10794,164 29] c= [c1,c2,c3,c4] [168,6622,11092,1839 2] [171,6675,10927,1961 8] [166,6489,11167,1692 0] [175,6494,11136,1901 5] g = [g1,g2] [7,7] [28,27] [116,125] [462,446]
#### 7.7.3.20 ASRC Programming Guidelines
For enabling a stream, Global and Stream specific registers need to be configured as mentioned below. Global registers are to be configured only once after a "hard reset" and not required for every time a new stream is enabled or disabled.
##### 7.7.3.20.1 Configure ASRC's Global Registers
- Configure Intermediate buffer location using ASRC_GLOBAL_SCRATCH_ADDR register
Address needs to be aligned to at least 64 bits. Size of the Buffer required is calculated using 12288 + 1792 * NUM_CHANNELS. For all 12 channels, Size = 12288 + 1792 * 12 = 33792 Bytes.
- Set ASRC_GLOBAL_ENB to "1"
Check if (ASRC_GLOBAL_STATUS.GLOBAL_ENABLED == 1).
##### 7.7.3.20.2 Configure ASRC's Stream Specific Registers
- Ensure that particular stream is in not active by checking
(STREAM<i>_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0).
- Configure STREAM<i>_CONFIG.RATIO_TYPE based on whether stream receives on-the-fly
ratio updates from software or from ARAD hardware module.
- Configure Input and Output CIF using STREAM<i>_RX_CIF_CTRL and
STREAM<i>_TX_CIF_CTRL registers. AXBAR_CHANNELS and AXBAR_BITS fields need to be configured for the receive ACIF. AXBAR_BITS field needs to be configured for the transmit ACIF. Enable the stream using STREAM<i>_ENB register. Ensure (STREAM<i>_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After the processing is done, disable the stream using STREAM<i>_ENB register. Ensure (STREAM<i>_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0).

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.3 ASRC Ratio
- For doing the conversion, ASRC expects a scalar value which is the ratio of Input Sampling
Frequency (Fs_in) to Output Sampling Frequency (Fs_out) expressed in Q32 format. Thus:
- Ratio = Fs_in / Fs_out
Example:
- If Fs_in = 48 kHz, Fs_out = 44.1 kHz
- Ratio = 48000 ÷ 44100 = 1.0884353741496598639455782312925
- Integer portion of the ratio is, RATIO_INT = "1"
Fractional portion of the ratio is, Frac_real = "0.0884353741496598639455782312925". In Q32 format, Fractional portion, RATIO_FRAC = Round (Frac_real * 232) = 379827040 rounds the result to nearest integer. Note: there is a precision loss while forming the ratio value itself. Some more examples are listed in the table below.
- Table 7.116 ASRC Ratio Examples
- Fsin (in kHz)
- Fsout (in kHz)
- Ratio (in real)
- RATIO_INT
- RATIO_FRAC
8.0 8.0 1.000000000 8.0 16.0 0.500000000 2147483648 16.0 44.1 0.362811791 1558264779 48.0 44.1 1.088435374 379827040 44.1 8.0 5.512500000 2201170739 8.0 192.0 0.041666667 178956971 192.0 96.0 2.000000000
##### 7.7.3.20.4 On-the-Fly Ratio Updates from Software
Configure STREAM<i>_CONFIG_RATIO_TYPE to FROM_SW mode.
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_INTEGER_PART = 5-bit integer portion of RATIO_INT);
see description in the previous section.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_FRAC_PART = 32-bit fractional portion of RATIO_FRAC);
see description in the previous section.
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_LOCK_STATUS = LOCK) for the new ratio to be used by
hardware. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.5 On-the-Fly Ratio Updates from ARAD
Configure (STREAM<i>_CONFIG.RATIO_TYPE) = FROM_ARAD).
- Configure (STREAM<i>_CONFIG.LANE_ID = same lane ID as used by ARAD for the
corresponding ratio update packets. Connect ASRC "Ratio Update CIF" to ARAD's TxCIF to receive the ratio updates from ARAD. Set (AXBAR_PART_1_ASRC1_RX7_0.ARAD1_TX1 = 1). Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.6 ASRC Hardware Ratio Compensation
It is recommended to enable Hardware Ratio Compensation for all I/O to I/O use cases irrespective of ratios: Configure ENABLE_HW_RATIO_COMP in the ASRC_STREAM<i>_CONFIG register.
- Configure NORMAL_WMARK and UPPER_WMARK for the input buffer in the
ASRC_STREAM1_RX_THRESHOLD register. Default values of 6 (upper) and 4 (normal) cause too much ratio compensation to happen. Experiments show 6 and 3 are suitable.
- Configure NORMAL_WMARK and LOWER_WMARK for the output buffer in the
ASRC_STREAM1_TX_THRESHOLD register. Default values of 2 (normal) and 1 (upper) cause too much ratio compensation to happen. Experiments show 3 (normal) and 0 (lower) seems to be more suitable. Configure COMP_VALUE in the ASRC_STREAM1_RATIO_COMP register.
- Initially COMP_VALUE = 0xffff helped covering all I/O-I/O scenarios
- COMP_VALUE = 0x3ffff seemed to help bring the buffer levels back to normal levels
without applying any software work-around. This was tested for 48 -> 48 and 48 -> 8 conversion ratios. Need more conversion ratios to be tested to finally conclude a value. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.7 Setting ASRC Input and Output Start Buffer Threshold:
Configure WORD_CNT in the ASRC_STREAM1_RX_THRESHOLD register for input. Configure WORD_CNT in the ASRC_STREAM1_TX_THRESHOLD register for output.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
By default, both are set to "2" (which means 64 samples), which is sufficient. In the worst case, this corresponds to a total buffering delay of ~8 mS (= 64 / 8 kHz). In case software needs to reduce the buffering delay, it can try configuring these fields to even lesser values (1 or 0).
##### 7.7.3.20.8 Configure ASRC CIF's APR Settings
ASRC follows other AHUB modules with respect to input and output samples security. Hence if the input that comes over the ACIF is APR enabled, output is also APR enabled. To disable APR_EN for output: Software needs to configure ASRC_GLOBAL_DISARM_APR_0 register.
- Disable access to the DISARM_APR register by setting
- ASRC_GLOBAL_DISARM_APR_ACCESS_CTRL register to "1". This register can be modified
only via SECURE register access.
##### 7.7.3.20.9 To Secure ASRC Intermediate Data Buffer
For securing the intermediate data buffer: Configure (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.APR_EN = 1). Configure (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.APR_REGION_ID = APR region parameters). Set (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.ACCESS_CTRL = 1) to disable access to the APR_CTRL register. This register can be modified only via SECURE register access.
- Once the above three registers are configured, GLOBAL_SCRATCH_ADDR should be
configured with an address belonging to APR region to ensure proper operation.
#### 7.7.3.21 ARAD Programming Guidelines
1. Check if the lane is in disabled state before using it: If (LANE_STATUS.LANE<i>_ENABLED == FALSE). Choose the Numerator and Denominator Clocks for the lane: Configure LANE<i>_NUMERATOR_MUX_SEL and LANE<i>_DENOMINATOR_MUX_SEL. Configure Numerator and Denominator Prescalars if required: Configure LANE<i>_NUMERATOR_PRESCALAR and/or LANE<i>_DENOMINATOR_PRESCALAR. Enable the lane for use: Set (LANE_ENABLE.LANE<i>_ENABLE = 1). After using a lane, disable it: Set (LANE_ENABLE.LANE<i>_ENABLE = 0). 2. 3. 4. 5. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the lane number.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.22 ADMA Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.22.1 ADMA Transfers
1.
- Software should not attempt to write into registers of an active channel after the
TRANSFER_ENABLE bit is set to "1." Accesses to the following registers are exceptions to this constraint:
- TRANSFER_PAUSE
- SOFT_RESET
2. Soft reset should not be applied when DMA transfers are in progress. It can only be applied when channel is hung or in PAUSE state.
- For disabling flow controlled DMA transfers (AHUB-to-Memory, AHUB-to-AHUB, and
- Memory-to-AHUB) from an ADMA channel, software should always disable it prior to
disabling the corresponding ADMAIF channel.
- Software should wait until the TRANSFER_ENABLED status bit goes low and clear any
pending Interrupts for re-enabling a disabled channel.
- TRANSFER_COUNT should be set to a non-zero value
- Software should ensure AHUB_FIFO_CTRL_0_TX_FIFO_SIZE or
- AHUB_FIFO_CTRL_0_RX_FIFO_SIZE registers in an ADMA channel and
- FIFO_CTRL_0_DMA_FIFO_SIZE register of AHUB channel mapped to this ADMA channel are
programmed to the same value. ADMA and AHUB channel mapping is done through CTRL_0_RX_REQUEST_SELECT or CTRL_0_TX_REQUEST_SELECT registers in ADMA.
- TRANSFER_COUNT status may not reflect the true value while transfer is in progress, so the
channel should be PAUSED for getting the correct status.
- Software may choose to terminate a transfer or disable a channel abruptly by clearing the
- TRANSFER_ENABLE bit or wait until hardware disables it automatically up on normal
completion of transfer.
- Software should wait until the TRANSFER_ENABLED status bit goes low before changing any
of the ADMA channel control and configuration registers. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
##### 7.7.3.22.2 Configuring ADMA Pages for Virtualization
- ADMA page configuration should be done by the host OS, which has access to the ADMA_GLOBAL
registers. Each guest OS only has access to the corresponding ADMA channel page. This restriction is done outside of APE. 1. For each ADMA OS page N:
- Assign ADMA channel groups to ADMA pages in ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_CHGRP. Each
channel group has four ADMA channels.
- Enable the ADMAIF_TX channel that the page can access in
ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_TX_REQUESTORS.
- Enable the ADMAIF_RX channel that the page can access in
ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_RX_REQUESTORS.

- APE Registers
- Program whether the page can access ARAM (ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_ARAM_CFG). It is
recommended Guest OS does not have access to ARAM. 2. For each ADMA channel N:
- Assign REGION_ID in ADMA_GLOBAL_CH[N]_REGION_ID. For channel that belongs to the
same page should be assigned with the same REGION_ID.}(@{Key=7.7.3; Title=Programming Guidelines; Body=This section describes the programming guidelines of APE.
#### 7.7.3.1 System Level Programming
Starting a use case:
- Enable modules from the tail end of the audio routing towards the source of the audio
routing. For example, when the audio samples are fetched from memory, mixed with system tones in the Mixer, and then played at the I2S, enable I2S first, followed by the Mixer, and then the ADMA Interface and ADMA. Ending a use case:
- Disable modules from the module nearest to the source towards the destination of the audio
routing. In the use case in the example above, disable ADMA first, followed by ADMA Interface, Mixer, and finally the I2S. 1. 2.
- The best practice to end a use case is to disable the module using <module>_ENABLE
register.
- Wait for (<module>_STATUS_0.ENABLE_STATUS == 0),
then move on to disable the next module a.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
b.
- Alternatively, instead of polling for (<module>_STATUS_0.ENABLE_STATUS == 0), software
can choose to use the TX_DONE Interrupt of every module. See the "Using Interrupts" subsection below for more details.
- Besides the above options a. and b., software can, for practical reasons, wait 20 mS after
getting a DMA TRANSFER_DONE Interrupt (as DMA is the source in most audio routings), then use the method described in option a. When an I2S/DMIC is the source of audio in
- AHUB, then software can wait 20 mS after checking for (I2S/DMIC ENABLE_STATUS == 0)
then use the method described in option a. c.
#### 7.7.3.2 Using Interrupts
- All AHUB modules have RX_DONE and TX_DONE Interrupts that can be used when ending a use
case. The procedure of using these Interrupts is:
- Write (<module>_XBAR_RX_INT_MASK = 0) and (<module>_XBAR_TX_INT_MASK = 0) to
unmask the Interrupt . All the TX_DONE, RX_DONE Interrupts are logically OR'ed and sent to the GIC as the ahub_err
- Interrupt. Hence the Interrupt service routine for ahub_err Interrupts needs to handle the
- TX_DONE/RX_DONE Interrupts
1. 2.
- Read (AHUB_INTR_STATUS_0_0) and (AHUB_INTR_STATUS_1_0) to check module(s) caused
the ahub_err to be asserted.
- In the identified module(s), Read (<module>_INT_STATUS) to find out which of the module's
Interrupts was fired. a. b.
#### 7.7.3.3 Programming Module RAMs
Modules like SFC and Mixer have internal RAMs to hold filter coefficients, configurations, etc. The following are the programming guidelines for writing into and reading from the RAMs: Writing to a single RAM location:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be written to>). Write ((<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) = <data to be written>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RW = 1). a. b. c. Writing sequentially to contiguous RAM locations:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.SEQ_ACCESS_EN = 1) to enable
automatic address advance (increment).
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be written to>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.ADDR_INIT_EN = 1). Write ((<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) = <data to be written>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RW = 1). a. b. c. d. e.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Repeat d. and e. for the every word that needs to be written to the RAM. f. Reading from a single RAM location:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be read from>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x,RW = 0). Read (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) to get the data). a. b. c. Reading sequentially from contiguous RAM locations:
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.SEQ_ACCESS_EN = 1) to enable
automatic address advance (increment).
- Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RAM_ADDR = <address of the RAM
entry to be read from>). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.ADDR_INIT_EN = 1). Write (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_CTRL_x.RW = 0). Read (<module>_AHUBRAMCTL_<module>_DATA_x) to get the data. Repeat steps 4. and 5. for every word that needs to be read from the RAM. a. b. c. d. e. f.
#### 7.7.3.4 AHUB Sub-modules Soft Reset Sequence
AHUB sub-modules support software reset. Soft reset resets FSM and state registers and flush the ACIF FIFOs. However, the effect of software reset on the sub-module Interrupt status register is not consistent across all the sub-modules. Some modules clear the Interrupt status register on soft reset but others do not. The following sequence can be used to ensure a consistent behavior. AHUB sub-module soft reset programming sequence: Disable all Interrupts of a sub-module. Handle and clear all pending Interrupts. Issue soft reset to the sub-module. Check for soft reset to get cleared (for this it needs client clock). Enable the module.
#### 7.7.3.5 Boot Sequence
##### 7.7.3.5.1 Cold Boot Sequence
The following steps are taken before bring ADSP out of reset. (Note: Unpower-gate of APE is not necessary because APE is not power-gated by default): 1. 2. CPU programs CAR with desired frequency.
- CPU enables clocks to APE through CAR module (Note: ADSP clocks must also be enabled
before releasing APE resets.)

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_APE_SET_0.SET_CLK_ENB_APE = 1) to
enable APE clock.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_V_SET_0.SET_CLK_ENB_APB2APE = 1) to
enable APB2APE clock.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0.SET_CLK_ENB_ADSPNEON = 1) to
enable ADSPNEON clock.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0.SET_CLK_ENB_ADSP = 1) to enable
ADSP Clock. 3.
- Re-enable APE MC clients
- Write (MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1.APE_FLUSH_ENABLE = 0) to re-enable APE MC
clients. 4.
- CPU programs CAR and deasserts APE reset to ACONNECT, AAS, AMC, AGIC, AXIBRIDGE,
AMISC, REGDEC, AHUB, ADMA.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_CLR_0.CLR_SWR_APE_RST = ?) to deassert
APE reset. 5. 6. CPU programs AGIC registers to set the Interrupt routing.
- CPU configures ADSP and L2 cache controller through programming the configuration
registers in AMISC. CPU downloads the ADSP boot code to DRAM.
- Write (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0.CLR_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST = 1) to
deassert ADSPINTF_RST. Initialize ADAST/ACAST, EVP, AMC config, ADSP config, and AGIC secure registers in AMISC. 7. 8. 9.
- Program the EVP registers in AMC. Reset vector of EVP points to the start of the boot
code. - - - -
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RESET_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_UNDEF_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_SWI_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_VEC_0,
0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_VEC_0 ,
0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RSVD_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_IRQ_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_FIQ_VEC_0 , 0xe59ff018);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RESET_ADDR_0 , <<RESET
- VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_UNDEF_ADDR_0 ,
<<UNDEFINDED VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_SWI_ADDR_0 , <<SWI
- VECTOR>>);
- - - - - - -

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
-
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_ADDR_0,
<<PREFETCH ABORT VECTOR>>0xc);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_ADDR_0 ,
<<DATA ABORT VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_RSVD_ADDR_0 ,
<<RESERVED>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_IRQ_ADDR_0 , <<IRQ
- VECTOR>>);
- RegWr32(NV_ADDRESS_MAP_APE_AMC_BASE + AMC_EVP_FIQ_ADDR_0 , <<FIQ
- VECTOR>>);
- - - - Program ADAST and ACAS. Configure AGIC secure registers in AMISC. 10.
- Write the settings bits in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0 atomically, to
deassert ADSP resets:
- CLR_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSP _RS
- Note: There should about six ADSP clocks of delay between releasing ADSP resets and
releasing of ADSP_INTERFACE_RST. 11. ADSP fetches reset vector from AMC and jumps to the boot code.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.75 ADSP Boot Flow**

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.6 Power Management Sequence
##### 7.7.3.6.1 Power Gating
Before power gating, APE states should be saved into DRAM. ADSP L1 and L2 are flushed. Power Gating Sequence: 1. 2. CPU requests ADSP to power gate. Request could come from mailbox.
- If ADSP is not ready to be power gated, it sends "not ready" message to CPU. Otherwise,
continue.
- ADSP shuts OFF all activities in AHUB and ADMA. It makes sure there is no outstanding
request in ADMA. It is recommended that CPU does not access APE registers after asking
- ADSP to be power gated and does not send more Interrupts to ADSP. It could unexpectedly
interrupt ADSP and divert it from the shut down process. ADSP saves all states and restore information to DRAM. ADSP flushes L1 and L2 cache. ADSP disables Interrupts to itself. Diverts Interrupts to CPU if appropriate. ADSP make sure there are no outstanding activities.
- ADSP executes WFI/WFE. WFI is recommended because it makes sure there is no
outstanding transaction in Cortex-A9.
- CPU sees the Interrupt from ADSP STANDBYWFI/STANDBYWFE signals. CPU reads the AGIC
status register and makes sure STANDBYWFI or STANDBYWFE is asserted.
- CPU read AMISC register to make sure L2_IDLE and L2_CLKSTOPPED of
- AMISC_ADSP_STATUS_0 are asserted
- Flush APE MCCIF
3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11.
- Set APE_FLUSH_ENABLE field in register MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1
- Poll APE_HOTRESET_STATUS field in register MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_1 for flush
done 12.
- Enable clamps
- Assert clamps by writing to PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_CLAMP_CONTROL_0 with (CLAMP =
- ON)
Insert 100 nS delay for clamps to engage. 13.
- CPU asserts reset through CAR
- Assert APE Reset. SET_SWR_APE_RST of CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_SET
register
- Assert ADSP resets. Set the following in the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_SET
register: - - -
- SET_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- - - - -
- SET_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSP_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPCSITEPTM_RST
14. 15. Wait for nine clocks to compensate for reset and clock latencies. CPU disables APE clocks.
- Disable APE clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_APE_CLR_0
- Disable APB2APE clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_APB2APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_V_CLR_0
- Disable ADSPNEON clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_ADSPNEON in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_CLR_0
- Disable ADSP Clock. Set field CLR_CLK_ENB_ADSP in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_CLR_0
16.
- Power gate APE
Single Write to PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with: - - - - - (LOGIC_SLEEP == ON) (SRAM_SLEEP == ON) (SRAM_RET == OFF_) (INTER_PART_DELAY_EN == ENABLE) (START == 1) Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit (START == DONE). Read PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that: - - - - (LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON) (SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON) (SRAM_RET_STS == OFF) If there is a mismatch, flag error.
##### 7.7.3.6.2 Power Ungating
- Power Ungating sequence is the same as cold boot. To restore the ADSP context, CPU sends a
message to ADSP, with pointers where the context information is saved. General sequence:
- Set partition power state to PUG
- Enable clocks
Assert resets (resets might be deasserted during enable clocks. This step ensures the states are reset.)

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Release clamping
- Deassert resets
- Clear MC flush request
Detailed sequence: 1.
- Unpower-gate on APE if not already in power up state, Single Write to
PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with: (LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF) (SRAM_SLEEP = OFF) (SRAM_RET = OFF) (INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE) (START = 1) Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until bit (START == DONE). Read PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 and verify that: (LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF) (SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF) (SRAM_RET_STS == OFF)
- If there is mismatch, flag error
2. 3. Repeat Steps 2 and 3 of cold boot sequence to enable clocks. CPU asserts reset through CAR.
- Assert APE Reset. SET_SWR_APE_RST of CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_SET
register
- Assert ADSP resets. Set the following in the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_SET
register - - - - - - -
- SET_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSP_RST
- SET_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST
4. Remove clamps. Write to (PMC_IMPL_PART_AUD_CLAMP_CONTROL_0.CLAMP = OFF).
- Insert 100 nS delay for clamps to engage
5. 6. Repeat Steps 4 to 9, 11, 12 of the Cold Boot Sequence to deassert Reset and initialize APE. CPU sends restore commands, which has pointers to the saved data, to ADSP.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.7 SC7 Entry and Exit
Before entering SC7 Entry, APE registers and states are saved to memory. Software device driver is responsible for saving non-secure critical information and restoring them during SC7 exit. BPMP is responsible for saving and restoring secure critical states. It is assumed that BPMP-FW provides the security measure to protect secure sensitive APE contexts. The secure registers and states that require BPMP to save and restore are:
- All EVP registers in AMC (Addr: 0x299_3700 to 0x299 _373c, and 0x299_3000)
- AMC_EVP_RESET_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_UNDEF_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_SWI_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_RSVD_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_IRQ_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_FIQ_VEC_0
- AMC_EVP_RESET_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_UNDEF_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_SWI_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_PREFETCH_ABORT_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_DATA_ABORT_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_RSVD_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_IRQ_ADDR_0
- AMC_EVP_FIQ_ADDR_0
- Followed by writing '1' to EVP_LOCK in AMC_CONFIG_0 to lock
- All AST_CONTROL, AST_STREAMID_CTL, and region 0-7 registers in ACAST and ADAST. Lock
bit are properly accordingly.
- ACAST address range: 0x0299_4000 to 0x0299_41F8
- ADAST address range: 0x0299_6000 to 0x0299_61F8
ADSP Configuration registers: MAXCLKLATENCY, CLUSTERID, VINITHI in AMISC_ADSP_CONFIG_0 register. AMISC_ADSP_PERIPHASE_0 register. AMISC_ADSP_L2_CONFIG_0 register. AMISC_ADSP_L2_REGFILEBASE_0 register.
- AMISC_ADSP_AGIC_CONFIG_0 register
- Write 1 to ADSP field of AMISC_CONFIG_LOCK_0 to lock
In summary, address: 0x0299_0004 to 0x0299_0014, and 0x0299_01C.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
All AMISC_KEYSLOTS* registers in AMISC:
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_NS_0
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY0_*
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY1_*
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY2_*
- AMISC_KEYSLOT_KEY3_*
AMISC_KEYSLOTS_NS_0 are properly set after keyslot values are restored. Address range: 0x0299_007c to 0x0299_00bf
##### 7.7.3.7.1 SC7 Exit Sequence
Note: Unpower-gate of APE is not necessary because APE is not power-gated by default. 1. 2.
- CPU programs CAR with desired frequency
- CPU enable clocks to APE through CAR module (Note: ADSP clocks must also be enabled
before releasing APE Resets)
- Enable APE clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_APE_SET_0
- Enable APB2APE clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_APB2APE in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_V_SET_0
- Enable ADSPNEON clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_ADSPNEON in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0
- Enable ADSP Clock. Set field SET_CLK_ENB_ADSP in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_ADSP_0
3.
- Re-enable APE MC clients
- Clear APE_FLUSH_ENABLE field in register MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1
4.
- CPU programs CAR and deassert APE reset to ACONNECT, AAS, AMC, AGIC, AXIBRIDGE,
- AMISC, REGDEC, AHUB, ADMA
- Deassert APE reset by writing to CLR_SWR_APE_RST field in register
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_APE_CLR_0
5.
- Restore EVP, ACAST, ADAST, ADSP configuration, AMISC_ADSP_AGIC_CONFIG_0 and Keyslot
registers securely as described above. Software restores all the APE registers and states. This can be done insecurely.
- Deassert ADSPINTF_RST by writing '1' to CLR_SWR_ADSPINTF_RST of
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0
- Write the settings bits in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_ADSP_CLR_0 atomically, to
deassert ADSP resets: 6. 7. 8.
- CLR_SWR_ADSPNEON_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPSCU_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPWDT_RST

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- CLR_SWR_ADSPDBG_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPPERIPH_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSP_RST
- CLR_SWR_ADSPCSITEPTM_RST
- Note: There should about six ADSP clocks of delay between releasing ADSP resets and
releasing ADSP_INTERFACE_RST)
- ADSP fetches reset vector from AMC and jumps to the boot code
#### 7.7.3.8 AAS Programming Guidelines
- The AAS starts functioning right out of reset. No programming is needed. When an error is
asserted, read the INT_STATUS register to check for Interrupt status. Write a '1' to INT_STATUS_CLR to clear the corresponding Interrupt status bit. When INT_STATUS is asserted, register ERROR_RESPONSE and ERROR_ADDRESS capture the information about the error status.
#### 7.7.3.9 ACIF Programming Guidelines
The following programming guidelines are common for the ACIF registers in all AHUB modules. The programming guidelines of the respective modules refers to this subsection when it comes to programming the ACIF registers.
- Set the XBAR_CHANNELS field to the number of channels in the input or output stream of a
module, depending on the direction.
- Set the CLIENT_CHANNELS field to the number of channels of the stream as dealt with
inside the module. This setting is different from XBAR_CHANNELS only when a conversion of the number of channels of an audio stream is desired. Similarly, set the XBAR_BITS and CLIENT_BITS fields.
- If XBAR_BITS and CLIENT_BITS do not match, the EXPAND and TRUNCATE fields are used to
determine how to transition from XBAR_BITS to CLIENT_BITS (in the case of receive) or from
- CLIENT_BITS to XBAR_BITS (in the case of transmit). Expanding always results in the actual
data being shifted to the MSB bits and the rest filled with zeros, ones, or some random bits from an LFSR. TRUNCATE can be set to chopping or rounding.
- For the ADMA interface, if packing of data in the TxCIF is desired, use PACK8_ENABLE or
- PACK16_ENABLE. Similarly, If unpacking of data in the receive interface is desired, use
UNPACK8_ENABLE or UNPACK16_ENABLE.
- If XBAR_CHANNELS and the CLIENT_CHANNELS are different, the STEREO_CONV field is
used to determine how a stereo stream is converted to a mono stream, and the MONO_CONV field is used to determine how a mono stream is converted to a stereo stream. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.10 I2S Controller Programming Guidelines
I2S transmit and receive directions can be independently enabled/disabled and controlled. Ensure that the I2S Tx/Rx is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case):
- Check if (I2S_AXBAR_RX/TX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0)
1.
- Configure the I2S Tx/Rx path
2.
- Configure CIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines" for more details)
- Populate I2S_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL, I2S_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL
a.
- Configure the I2S to operate in the mode of choice
3.
- Refer to the "Programming I2S to Operate in Various Modes" section about programming
I2S in different modes. a. Select the sampling rate indirectly by setting the channel bit count. Use the "I2S Sampling
- Rate Selection" section to find the correct value for this register
- Configure I2S_TIMING_CHANNEL_BIT_CNT
b.
- If I2S module is not already in the enabled state, enable the module
4. Set (I2S_ENABLE = 1). a.
- Enable the I2S receive and/or transmit directions
5. Set (I2S_AXBAR_RX_ENABLE = 1), (I2S_AXBAR_TX_ENABLE = 1). a.
- Ensure that the enabling is complete
6. Ensure (I2S_AXBAR_RX/TX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). a.
- After using the module, disable the module
7. Set (I2S_AXBAR_RX_ENABLE = 0), (I2S_AXBAR_TX_ENABLE = 0). a.
##### 7.7.3.10.1 I2S Sampling Rate Selection
The channel_bit_cnt can be calculated using the equation: channel_bit_cnt = (frequency of bit_clk) / (C * required sampling rate) - 1 Where C is 2 for LRCK modes and 1 for FSYNC modes. If this calculation returns a fractional value, use the non-symmetry feature of the controller to attain the required sampling rate. In that case, the channel_bit_cnt value should be programmed with an integer that is closest to the fraction, but less than the fraction. The table below contains examples for common sampling rates with CLK_SOURCE_I2S = 24 MHz:

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Table 7.112 Common Sampling Rates (CLK_SOURCE_I2S = 24 MHz)
- I2S_NEW_TIMING[12:0] (Mark-space Ratio = Left_channel : Right channel)
- Samplin
g Rate
- CLK_DIVISOR = 3
- BIT_CLK = 6 MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 5
- BIT_CLK = 4 MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 7
- BIT_CLK = 3 MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 1
- BIT_CLK = 12
- MHz
- CLK_DIVISOR = 0
- BIT_CLK = 24
- MHz
8 kHz 0x05db 0x02ed 0x0176 0x00f9 0x10bb (1500:1500) (750:750) (375:375) (250:250) (187:188) 32 kHz 0x0176 0x10bb
- Not supported
0x103e
- Not supported
(375:375) (187:188) (62:63)
## 44.1 kHz
0x010f 0x0087 0x0043 0x002c 0x0021 (272:272) (136:136) (68:68) (45:45) (34:34) 48 kHz 0x00f9 0x007c 0x103e
- Not supported
- Not supported
(250:250) (125:125) (62:63) 96 kHz 0x007c 0x103e 0x101f
- Not supported
- Not supported
(125:125) (62:63) (31:32) Note:
- Ideally, any sampling rate can be generated, either accurately or approximately with any
clk_src selected for I2S, if the clk_divisor and the channel_bit_cnt are programmed accordingly.
- The NON_SYM.EN feature is meant to create the sampling rates approximately by realizing an
odd bit rate with a non-50:50 mark/space ratio. However, if the bit rate (2*channel_bit_cnt) itself is a fraction, the resultant sampling rate is not accurate. The entries shown as not supported in the above table are attributed to such a deviation. When the channel_bit_cnt is less than 32, the bit_size should be programmed to be less than channel_bit_cnt.
- Programming I2S to Operate in Various Modes
After the module initialization (reset and clock programming), program the corresponding bits of the following registers.
- Table 7.113 I2S Programming for Various Modes
- Register
- Basic
- LJM
- RJM
- DSP
- PCM
- NW
- TDM
- I2S_CTRL_FRAME_FORMAT
- I2S_CTRL_LRCK_POLARITY

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Register
- Basic
- LJM
- RJM
- DSP
- PCM
- NW
- TDM
- I2S_CTRL_CHANNEL_BIT_CNT
# of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel (# of bits in left channel + right channel) # of bit clocks per frame # of bit clocks per frame # of bit clocks per frame 0: Long Fsync
- TX_DATA_OFFSET
(CHANNEL_BIT_CNT -
- BITS_PER_SAMPLE)
0/1/2 1: Short Fsync 0: Long Fsync
- RX_DATA_OFFSET
(CHANNEL_BIT_CNT -
- BITS_PER_SAMPLE)
0/1/2 1: Short Fsync 0: Short Fsync
- I2S_CTRL_FSYNC_WIDTH
# of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel # of bit clocks in left channel
- Bits per
sample (slot size) 1: Long Fsync
- HIGHZ_CTRL
0/1/2
- EDGE_CTRL
- I2S_SLOT_CTRL_TOTAL_SLOTS
0 to 15
- SLOT_ENABLES
0x01 0x01 0x01 0x03 0x01
- Note 1
- Note 2
Note 1: In NW mode, there can only be one active slot. So 0x01, 0x02, 0x04, 0x08 are allowed values. Note 2: In TDM mode, there is no restriction on what or how many slots are enabled. The only restriction on the programming sequence is that all other registers must be programmed first before the Tx/Rx channels are enabled (which is done by setting XFER_EN_TX/XFER_EN_RX).
- Programming I2S to Work in Loopback Mode
1. Set the (I2S_CTRL_LPBK = 1). The rest of the programming is the same as if I2S is not in the loopback mode.
#### 7.7.3.11 DMIC Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.11.1 Minimum Required Guidelines
1. Ensure that the DMIC is in a disabled state (after being used previously):
- Check if (DMIC_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0)
Configure the DMIC: 2. a.
- Configure TxCIF parameters
- Populate DMIC_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers
Configure the OSR:
- Populate DMIC_CTRL_OSR register
b.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
3.
- Enable the DMIC module
Set (DMIC_ENABLE = 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (DMIC_ENABLE = 0). 4. It is mandatory to program client bits of TxCIF to 24 bit as algorithm works in 24-bit mode. AXBAR bits can be programmed as per requirement.
##### 7.7.3.11.2 Optional Guidelines
While configuring the DMIC controller (step 2 of the section above) one can choose to configure the following optional features: 1.
- Configure whether to receive the left channel data followed by right channel data or the
other way around: Use the DMIC_CTRL_LRSEL_POLARITY register field. Configure whether to receive data in both left and right channels or just the left channel or the right channel:
- Use the DMIC_CTRL_CHANNEL_SELECT register field
DMIC has three filters in the data path, namely the DC removal filter, Sinc Correction filter and a generic low pass filter. These can be enabled using bits DCR_ENABLE, SC_ENABLE,
- LP_ENABLE respectively, in the register DMIC_DBG_CTRL_0
2. 3. a.
- Each filter is made up of one or two biquads. Each filter has a filter gain in signed Q23
format configurable using the register <Filter_name>_FILTER_GAIN_0
- Associated with each biquad are five registers, namely
<Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_0_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_1_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_2_0, <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_3_0, and <Filter_name>_<Biquad_no.>_COEF_4_0 (all in signed Q23 format). They correspond to biquad coefficients b0, b1, b2, a1, a2. Coefficent a0, of course, is assumed to be 1. b.
#### 7.7.3.12 Mixer Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.12.1 Guidelines for Programming Mixer Inputs
In general, the Mixer's inputs are all independent of each other. The programming guidelines are given for configuring and using a generic input. The guidelines are applicable for any of the Mixer's inputs. 1. Configure the CIF parameters. Populate the register MIXER_AXBAR_RX <i>_CIF_CTRL.
- Make gain application related configurations (see Programming Gain Application below.)
- Make peak value related configuration
- Configure the register MIXER_AXBAR_RX<i>_PEAK_CTRL
- Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10
2. 3.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
##### 7.7.3.12.2 Guidelines for Programming Mixer Outputs
1. Ensure the output to be used is in a disabled state (After being used in the previous use case) Check if (MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0).
- Configure the adder associated with this output by enabling which inputs to be used with
this adder
- Populate the register MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_ADDER_CONFIG
- Ensure that the Mixer module is in an enabled state
- Check if (MIXER_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1)
2. 3. a.
- If not, enable the Mixer module
Set (MIXER_ENABLE = 1).
- Ensure the module is done initializing
Check if (MIXER_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). b. 4.
- Enable the Mixer output
Set (MIXER_AXBAR_TX<j>_ENABLE = 1).
- Note: j = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5
##### 7.7.3.12.3 Programming Gain Application
All gain-related configurations reside in a RAM as shown below.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.76 Gain Configurations in RAM**
- To write values into this RAM, one must use the AHUBRAMCTL_GAIN_CONFIG_RAM_CTRL,
- AHUBRAMCTL_GAIN_CONFIG_RAM_DATA. Refer to the Programming Module RAMs subsection for
programming guidelines on writing/reading RAM locations. The programming sequence for writing new gain parameters is:

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Make sure the hardware is not in the middle of updating its internal variables with the old set of gain related parameters:
- Ensure (MIXER_AXBAR_RX<i>_STATUS_CNFG_BUSY == 0), where i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or
10. Program new gain value corresponding to other parameters if needed. Write to 0xf offset register to trigger the hardware to start using a new set of values. 1. 2. 3. Note:
- The 'Duration_inv_1byN3' should be calculated by software from the value of
'Duration_N3' (N3) as follows: Duration_inv_1byN3 =(1 / N3) * 2 prescalar * 2 31 , where prescalar = 6. a.
- Polynomial coefficients (Cn_p*-*, offset is 0x0 to 0x8)
Data formats: Q8.24 (2's complement). Range: -128 to 128-2-24 . b. Gain value's data formats: Q16.16 (2's complement). Range: -32768 to 32768-2-16 . c.
##### 7.7.3.12.4 Reading Peak Values
The peak value statuses are available in a RAM as shown below.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.77 Peak Values**
- To read a value from this RAM, one must use the registers AHUBRAMCTL_PEAKM_CTRL and
- AHUBRAMCTL_PEAKM_DATA. Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for
programming guidelines on writing/reading RAM locations.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.13 AMX Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.13.1 Mandatory Guidelines
1.
- Ensure that the AMX is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case)
Check (AMX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the AMX. 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see the "ACIF Programming
- Guidelines" section for more details
- Populate AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL0, AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL1,
- AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL2,
AMX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL3 and AMX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Enable the inputs that are used for making the output frame
Use register fields AMX_CTRL_RX<i>_EN, where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
- Program the byte RAM map
Use AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL and AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA registers.
- Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for programming guidelines on
reading RAM locations.
- Program the "wait-on" conditions for AMX
- Configure the AMX_CTRL_RX_DEP, AMX_CTRL_MSTR_RX_NUM register fields
- Configure which of the bytes in the output stream contain data
- Configure the AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN0 register for the LSB 32 bytes and the
AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN1 register for the MSB 32 bytes. b. c. d. e. 3. Enable the AMX module. Set (AMX_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module is done initializing before sending data to it. Ensure (AMX_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module. Set (AMX_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.
##### 7.7.3.13.2 Optional Guidelines
1. Configure AMX to stop accepting new input frames right after an input is disabled (otherwise
- AMX waits until all the continuous incoming frames are received and then disables)
Set field(s) ( AMX_CTRL.RX<i>_FORCE_DISABLE = ENABLE ), where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
- For auto disable and auto enable feature, program the IDLE count first in
- RX<i>_CTRL_FRAME_PERIOD_0_IDLE_CNT register, where i = 1, 2, 3, or 4, then program
AMX_CYA_0 [0]. Both need be performed before enabling AMX.
- Note: Refer to the "Common Programming Guidelines" section for information on using some
optional features in the AMX (and all other modules).
- Configure Audio CIF control registers AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH0_CTRL,
- AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH1_CTRL, AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH2_CTRL, AMX_AUDIOCIF_CH3_CTRL, and
2. 3.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- AMX_AUDIOCIF_OUT_CTRL according to the guidelines given in the "ACIF Programming
Guidelines" subsection.
- Configure the CH_DEP parameter field in the AMX_CTRL_0 register to determine whether to
wait for all enabled channels to have data before transfer or start sending the data when any one of the input channels has data (WT_ON_ALL and WT_ON_ANY).
- Configure the MSTR_CH_NUM register for designated master channel, so that if the data is
available on a particular channel, the output can be sent.
- Enable the AMX output by setting BYTE_EN in AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN0 and
AMX_OUT_BYTE_EN1. For Byte RAMCTL programming: 4. 5. 6. 7.
- For programming RAM with the HW_ADR_EN bit cleared in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register, set the RAM Offset in the RAM_ADR field of the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register and set data in the DATA field in the
AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA register.
- For programming RAM with the HW_ADR_EN bit set in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register, set the RAM Offset in the RAM_ADR field of the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL register to 0 and set data in the DATA field in the
- AMX_AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA register. Hardware auto-increments the RAM_ADR after
each write.
- Write sequence for single location write (NOT in burst/sequential)
1.
- Set address in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0; make sure that (SEQ_ACCESS_EN == 0) for
single write/read (NOT in burst).
- Set RW field in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0
- Set ADDR_INIT_EN field - optional for write
Program (AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA_0 = data to write). 2. 3. 4. Read sequence for single location read (NOT in burst/sequential): 1.
- Set address in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0; make sure that (SEQ_ACCESS_EN == 0) for
single write/read (NOT in burst).
- Reset RW field in AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_CTRL_0
- Set ADDR_INIT_EN field
- Read the data from AUDIORAMCTL_AMX_DATA_0
2. 3. 4.
#### 7.7.3.14 ADX Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.14.1 Mandatory Guidelines
1. Ensure that the ADX is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (ADX_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the ADX: 2.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters; see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details.
- Populate ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL0, ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL1,
- ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL2,
ADX_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL3 and ADX_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL registers. Enable the inputs that are used for making the output frame: Use register fields ADX_CTRL_TX<j>_EN, where j = 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. Program the byte RAM map:
- Use ADX_AUDIORAMCTL_ADX_CTRL and ADX_AUDIORAMCTL_ADX_DATA registers. Refer
to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection for programming guidelines on reading RAM locations. Configure which of the bytes in the input stream contain data:
- Configure the ADX_IN_BYTE_EN0 register for the LSB 32 bytes and the ADX_IN_BYTE_EN1
register for the MSB 32 bytes. b. c. d. 3. Enable the ADX module: Set (ADX_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module is done initializing. Poll (ADX_STATUS.ENABLE _STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (ADX_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.
##### 7.7.3.14.2 Optional Guidelines
- Configure ADX to stop generating new input frames right after an output is disabled
(otherwise ADX waits until all the continuous incoming frames are received and then disables) Set field(s) ( ADX_CTRL_0.TX<j>_FORCE_DISABLE = ENABLE), where j = 1, 2, 3, or 4.
#### 7.7.3.15 SFC Programming Guidelines
1. Ensure that the SFC is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (SFC_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the SFC: 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details) Populate SFC_AXBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL and SFC_AXBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Configure input/output sampling frequencies
Populate SFC_AXBAR_RX_FREQ_FS_IN and SFC_AXBAR_TX_FREQ_FS_OUT registers. b. 3.
- There are hardcoded coefficients for commonly used frequency conversions (see below). But
for other frequency conversions, the software must program filter coefficients. Furthermore, optionally, even for the common use cases, the software may choose to program the filter coefficients. Note that the coefficients are in Q23 number format (1 sign bit and 23 fractional bits). a. Set (SFC_COEF_RAM_0.COEF_RAM_EN = 1).

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Program the RAM via SFC_AHUBRAMCTL_SFC_CTRL_0 and
- SFC_AHUBRAMCTL_SFC_DATA_0. Refer to the "Programming Module RAMs" subsection
for how to program any RAM in an AHUB module. b. Enable the SFC module: Set SFC_ENABLE to 1. Ensure the module initialization is done before sending data to SFC: Ensure (SFC_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (SFC_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5. 6.
##### 7.7.3.15.1 Commonly Used Frequency Conversions
8 to 44.1 kHz 8 to 48 kHz 16 to 44.1 kHz 16 to 48 kHz
## 44.1 to 8 kHz
## 44.1 to 16 kHz
48 to 8 kHz 48 to 16 kHz
#### 7.7.3.16 AFC Programming Guidelines
Ensure that the AFC is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (AFC_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure the AFC: 1. 2.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details) Populate AFC_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL and AFC_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Configure the maximum expected PPM difference between the two clock sources that AFC
is used to control the flow between Configure the AFC_CLK_PPM_DIff register. a. b.
- Configure the I2S FIFO thresholds and AFC TxCIF thresholds that are used by the AFC logic
Configure the AFC_CLK_PPM_DIff register*. c. Enable the AFC module: Set (AFC_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module initialization is complete before sending data to AFC: Ensure (AFC_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (AFC_ENABLE = 0). 3. 4. 5.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
The following table shows the guidelines to follow for setting the threshold values under various conditions. In the table below, the numbers in parentheses are example values.
- Table 7.114 Threshold Settings
- AFC_THRESHOLDS_I2S_0
- AFC_THRESHOLDS_AFC_0
- Destination I2S
- FIFO Threshold
(Programmed in
- I2S_AUDIOCIF_I2
SRX_CTRL_0.
- FIFO_THRESHOL
D)
- Use
- Cas
e
- HIGH_THRE
- SHOLD
- START_TH
- RESHOLD
- LOW_THRE
- SHOLD
- HIGH_THRE
- SHOLD
- START_TH
- RESHOLD
- LOW_THRE
- SHOLD
- Actu
al (Typ .)
- Valu
e
- I2S
→
- AFC
→
- I2S
(START_THR
- ESHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRE
- SHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0 (8)
- I2S
→
- SFC
→
- AFC
→
- I2S
(2 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 2)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 1)
(START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0
- I2S
→
- AFC
→
- AMX
→
- I2S
(START_THR
- ESHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRE
- SHOLD + 1)
(8)
- START_THRE
- SHOLD
(7) (START_THR
- ESHOLD – 1)
(6) (START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0 (8)
- I2S
→
- SFC
→
- AFC
→
- AMX
→
- I2S
(2 * SRC-
- BURST +1)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 2)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST)
(2 * SRC-
- BURST + 4)
(1 * SRC-
- BURST + 4)
(4) (START_THRESHOL D + 1)
- AFC_THRESHOLDS
_I2S_0
#### 7.7.3.17 OPE Programming Guidelines
- Ensure that OPE is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case)
Check if (OPE_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0). Configure OPE: 1. 2.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details) Populate OPE_XBAR_RX_CIF_CTRL and OPE_XBAR_TX_CIF_CTRL registers.
- Configure MBDRC and PEQ
b. 3. Enable OPE module: Set (OPE_ENABLE = 1). Ensure the module initialization is complete before sending data to MBDRC: Ensure (OPE_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After using the module, disable the module: Set (OPE_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5. If an output device is changing, or the coefficients and other settings need to be changed: 1. 2. Disable OPE.
- Wait for (OPE_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0) for datapath flushed out, or OPE_SOFT_RESET
if immediate disable is needed. Reprogram all coefficients and configuration registers as required. Trigger OPE_SOFT_RESET. Enable OPE as before. 3. 4. 5. Note: Coefficient Data programmed takes care of the signs, i.e., hardware will always do add, so to implement a BiQuad operation: b0 * x[n] + b1 * x[n-1] + b2 * x[n-2] + (-a1) * y[n-1] + (-a2) * y[n-2]. Software needs to provide b0, b1, b2, -a1, -a2 as the coefficients.
#### 7.7.3.18 MVC Programming Guidelines
1. Ensure that the MVC is in a disabled state (after being used in a previous use case): Check if (MVC_STATUS == 0). Configure the MVC: 2. a.
- Configure the receive and transmit ACIF parameters (see "ACIF Programming Guidelines"
for more details). Program MVC_CONFIG registers.
- Program all Volume related settings (Target Volume, Duration, Polynomial Coefficients in
Polynomial mode). b. c. 3. Enable MVC module: Set (MVC_ENABLE = 1).
- Ensure the module initialization is complete before sending data to MVC: Ensure
MVC_STATUS is 1. After using the module, disable the module: Set (MVC_ENABLE = 0). 4. 5.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
If software wants to change polynomial coefficients, duration parameters, or volume parameters (target volume and mute_unmute) on the fly while MVC is in enable state: 1. 2. Check the status of switching: COEFF_SWITCH, DURATION_SWITCH and VOLUME_SWITCH.
- Program new parameters (For coefficient switching, hardware handles whether that goes to
Ping or Pong).
- Set COEFF_SWICTH/DURATION_SWITCH/VOLUME_SWITCH to let hardware know new
parameters are ready. 3.
**Figure 7.78 Programming Timeline for Updated Software Configuration**
- Note: If software wants to program polynomial coefficients, duration parameters and volume
parameters at the same time, then software should first program all the required fields for polynomial coefficients, duration parameters, and volume parameters, then set COEFF_SWITCH, DURATION_SWITCH, and VOLUME SWITCH together (they all belong to the same register). If an output device is changing, or the settings need to be changed: 1. 2. 3. 4. Disable the MVC. Reprogram all registers. Trigger Soft Resets for MVC and CIFs. Enable – in same order above. If the software is changing parameters while MVC is in disable state, following points should be kept in consideration: 1.
- If software wants to retain history between disable and enable stages, then when software
disables the MVC, it should also set the INIT_VOL register to the last set Volume value by software. Examples: a.
- If software sets the volume to T1 and then disables the module, INIT_VOL should be set to
T1.
- If software sets the volume to T1, then press Mute button and then disables the module,
INIT_VOL should be set to T1.
- If software sets the volume to T1 and then disables the module, INIT_VOL should be set to
- T1. Now if during the disable stage, if software changes the volume to T2, INIT_VOL should
b. c.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
be set to T2 Exception: The only exception to the above case is if the last set volume was 0. If the last set volume was 0, then the INIT_VOL register should be set to the INIT_VOL during boot-up. 2.
- If software unmutes a channel while in the disabled stage, it needs to update the
TARGET_VOL register to the last set volume value by software.
#### 7.7.3.19 DSPK Programming Guidelines
- DSPK Controller Programming
1. Ensure that DSPK is in disabled state (after being used in previous use case). Check if (DSPK_STATUS.RX_ENABLED == 0). Apply soft-reset to DSPK to flush out all the FIFOs. (DSPK_SOFT_RESET.SOFT_RESET = 1). Program CIF CTRL register. Configure DSPK_RX_CIF_CTRL register. Only mono and stereo channels are supported. Program DSPK_CORE CTRL register.
- Configure STAGE1_GAIN, STAGE2_GAIN, STAGE3_GAIN, LOWDELAY_FILTER_MODE,
CHANNEL_SELECT, OSR and LRSEL_POLARITY bits. Program SDM COEF registers.
- Based on the value of OSR, program these registers appropriately. Specific values are
mentioned in next column. Enable the Module. Program (DSPK_ENABLE = 1). Disable the Module. After using, disable dspk. (DSPK_ENABLE = 0). Wait for module to get disabled. Poll for (RX_DONE == 1); wait until it is asserted. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8.
- CODEC Programming
1. Program DSPK_CODEC_CTRL register. Configure CHANNEL_SELECT for either mono/stereo channels. Configure BIT_ORDER to specify LSB/MSB bit to be sent first. Configure (CODEC_CONFIG_MODE = 1). Configure CNFG_REP_NUM for repetition number. Program DSPK_CODEC_DATA register. Configure CH1_CONTROL_WORD and CH0_CONTROL_WORD. Enable dspk module. Program (DSPK_ENABLE = 1). Enable CODEC_ENABLE bit. Program (CONFIG_START = 1). Wait until codec programming is done. Poll for CONFIG_DONE bit. 2. 3. 4. 5.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
6. Disable CODEC_CONFIG mode.
- DSM Coefficients Programming for Different OSR's
- Table 7.115 DSM Coefficients for Different OSR's
- DSMCOEFS_5_256
- DSMCOEFS_5_128
- DSMCOEFS_5_64
- DSMCOEFS_5_32
a = [a2,a3,a4,a5] [5208,7652,11087,158 85] [5268,7819,11157,170 72] [5051,7359,10711,142 10] [4935,7489,10794,164 29] c= [c1,c2,c3,c4] [168,6622,11092,1839 2] [171,6675,10927,1961 8] [166,6489,11167,1692 0] [175,6494,11136,1901 5] g = [g1,g2] [7,7] [28,27] [116,125] [462,446]
#### 7.7.3.20 ASRC Programming Guidelines
For enabling a stream, Global and Stream specific registers need to be configured as mentioned below. Global registers are to be configured only once after a "hard reset" and not required for every time a new stream is enabled or disabled.
##### 7.7.3.20.1 Configure ASRC's Global Registers
- Configure Intermediate buffer location using ASRC_GLOBAL_SCRATCH_ADDR register
Address needs to be aligned to at least 64 bits. Size of the Buffer required is calculated using 12288 + 1792 * NUM_CHANNELS. For all 12 channels, Size = 12288 + 1792 * 12 = 33792 Bytes.
- Set ASRC_GLOBAL_ENB to "1"
Check if (ASRC_GLOBAL_STATUS.GLOBAL_ENABLED == 1).
##### 7.7.3.20.2 Configure ASRC's Stream Specific Registers
- Ensure that particular stream is in not active by checking
(STREAM<i>_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 0).
- Configure STREAM<i>_CONFIG.RATIO_TYPE based on whether stream receives on-the-fly
ratio updates from software or from ARAD hardware module.
- Configure Input and Output CIF using STREAM<i>_RX_CIF_CTRL and
STREAM<i>_TX_CIF_CTRL registers. AXBAR_CHANNELS and AXBAR_BITS fields need to be configured for the receive ACIF. AXBAR_BITS field needs to be configured for the transmit ACIF. Enable the stream using STREAM<i>_ENB register. Ensure (STREAM<i>_STATUS.ENABLE_STATUS == 1). After the processing is done, disable the stream using STREAM<i>_ENB register. Ensure (STREAM<i>_STATUS_ENABLE_STATUS == 0).

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.3 ASRC Ratio
- For doing the conversion, ASRC expects a scalar value which is the ratio of Input Sampling
Frequency (Fs_in) to Output Sampling Frequency (Fs_out) expressed in Q32 format. Thus:
- Ratio = Fs_in / Fs_out
Example:
- If Fs_in = 48 kHz, Fs_out = 44.1 kHz
- Ratio = 48000 ÷ 44100 = 1.0884353741496598639455782312925
- Integer portion of the ratio is, RATIO_INT = "1"
Fractional portion of the ratio is, Frac_real = "0.0884353741496598639455782312925". In Q32 format, Fractional portion, RATIO_FRAC = Round (Frac_real * 232) = 379827040 rounds the result to nearest integer. Note: there is a precision loss while forming the ratio value itself. Some more examples are listed in the table below.
- Table 7.116 ASRC Ratio Examples
- Fsin (in kHz)
- Fsout (in kHz)
- Ratio (in real)
- RATIO_INT
- RATIO_FRAC
8.0 8.0 1.000000000 8.0 16.0 0.500000000 2147483648 16.0 44.1 0.362811791 1558264779 48.0 44.1 1.088435374 379827040 44.1 8.0 5.512500000 2201170739 8.0 192.0 0.041666667 178956971 192.0 96.0 2.000000000
##### 7.7.3.20.4 On-the-Fly Ratio Updates from Software
Configure STREAM<i>_CONFIG_RATIO_TYPE to FROM_SW mode.
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_INTEGER_PART = 5-bit integer portion of RATIO_INT);
see description in the previous section.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_FRAC_PART = 32-bit fractional portion of RATIO_FRAC);
see description in the previous section.
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_LOCK_STATUS = LOCK) for the new ratio to be used by
hardware. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.5 On-the-Fly Ratio Updates from ARAD
Configure (STREAM<i>_CONFIG.RATIO_TYPE) = FROM_ARAD).
- Configure (STREAM<i>_CONFIG.LANE_ID = same lane ID as used by ARAD for the
corresponding ratio update packets. Connect ASRC "Ratio Update CIF" to ARAD's TxCIF to receive the ratio updates from ARAD. Set (AXBAR_PART_1_ASRC1_RX7_0.ARAD1_TX1 = 1). Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.6 ASRC Hardware Ratio Compensation
It is recommended to enable Hardware Ratio Compensation for all I/O to I/O use cases irrespective of ratios: Configure ENABLE_HW_RATIO_COMP in the ASRC_STREAM<i>_CONFIG register.
- Configure NORMAL_WMARK and UPPER_WMARK for the input buffer in the
ASRC_STREAM1_RX_THRESHOLD register. Default values of 6 (upper) and 4 (normal) cause too much ratio compensation to happen. Experiments show 6 and 3 are suitable.
- Configure NORMAL_WMARK and LOWER_WMARK for the output buffer in the
ASRC_STREAM1_TX_THRESHOLD register. Default values of 2 (normal) and 1 (upper) cause too much ratio compensation to happen. Experiments show 3 (normal) and 0 (lower) seems to be more suitable. Configure COMP_VALUE in the ASRC_STREAM1_RATIO_COMP register.
- Initially COMP_VALUE = 0xffff helped covering all I/O-I/O scenarios
- COMP_VALUE = 0x3ffff seemed to help bring the buffer levels back to normal levels
without applying any software work-around. This was tested for 48 -> 48 and 48 -> 8 conversion ratios. Need more conversion ratios to be tested to finally conclude a value. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.7 Setting ASRC Input and Output Start Buffer Threshold:
Configure WORD_CNT in the ASRC_STREAM1_RX_THRESHOLD register for input. Configure WORD_CNT in the ASRC_STREAM1_TX_THRESHOLD register for output.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
By default, both are set to "2" (which means 64 samples), which is sufficient. In the worst case, this corresponds to a total buffering delay of ~8 mS (= 64 / 8 kHz). In case software needs to reduce the buffering delay, it can try configuring these fields to even lesser values (1 or 0).
##### 7.7.3.20.8 Configure ASRC CIF's APR Settings
ASRC follows other AHUB modules with respect to input and output samples security. Hence if the input that comes over the ACIF is APR enabled, output is also APR enabled. To disable APR_EN for output: Software needs to configure ASRC_GLOBAL_DISARM_APR_0 register.
- Disable access to the DISARM_APR register by setting
- ASRC_GLOBAL_DISARM_APR_ACCESS_CTRL register to "1". This register can be modified
only via SECURE register access.
##### 7.7.3.20.9 To Secure ASRC Intermediate Data Buffer
For securing the intermediate data buffer: Configure (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.APR_EN = 1). Configure (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.APR_REGION_ID = APR region parameters). Set (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.ACCESS_CTRL = 1) to disable access to the APR_CTRL register. This register can be modified only via SECURE register access.
- Once the above three registers are configured, GLOBAL_SCRATCH_ADDR should be
configured with an address belonging to APR region to ensure proper operation.
#### 7.7.3.21 ARAD Programming Guidelines
1. Check if the lane is in disabled state before using it: If (LANE_STATUS.LANE<i>_ENABLED == FALSE). Choose the Numerator and Denominator Clocks for the lane: Configure LANE<i>_NUMERATOR_MUX_SEL and LANE<i>_DENOMINATOR_MUX_SEL. Configure Numerator and Denominator Prescalars if required: Configure LANE<i>_NUMERATOR_PRESCALAR and/or LANE<i>_DENOMINATOR_PRESCALAR. Enable the lane for use: Set (LANE_ENABLE.LANE<i>_ENABLE = 1). After using a lane, disable it: Set (LANE_ENABLE.LANE<i>_ENABLE = 0). 2. 3. 4. 5. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the lane number.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.22 ADMA Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.22.1 ADMA Transfers
1.
- Software should not attempt to write into registers of an active channel after the
TRANSFER_ENABLE bit is set to "1." Accesses to the following registers are exceptions to this constraint:
- TRANSFER_PAUSE
- SOFT_RESET
2. Soft reset should not be applied when DMA transfers are in progress. It can only be applied when channel is hung or in PAUSE state.
- For disabling flow controlled DMA transfers (AHUB-to-Memory, AHUB-to-AHUB, and
- Memory-to-AHUB) from an ADMA channel, software should always disable it prior to
disabling the corresponding ADMAIF channel.
- Software should wait until the TRANSFER_ENABLED status bit goes low and clear any
pending Interrupts for re-enabling a disabled channel.
- TRANSFER_COUNT should be set to a non-zero value
- Software should ensure AHUB_FIFO_CTRL_0_TX_FIFO_SIZE or
- AHUB_FIFO_CTRL_0_RX_FIFO_SIZE registers in an ADMA channel and
- FIFO_CTRL_0_DMA_FIFO_SIZE register of AHUB channel mapped to this ADMA channel are
programmed to the same value. ADMA and AHUB channel mapping is done through CTRL_0_RX_REQUEST_SELECT or CTRL_0_TX_REQUEST_SELECT registers in ADMA.
- TRANSFER_COUNT status may not reflect the true value while transfer is in progress, so the
channel should be PAUSED for getting the correct status.
- Software may choose to terminate a transfer or disable a channel abruptly by clearing the
- TRANSFER_ENABLE bit or wait until hardware disables it automatically up on normal
completion of transfer.
- Software should wait until the TRANSFER_ENABLED status bit goes low before changing any
of the ADMA channel control and configuration registers. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
##### 7.7.3.22.2 Configuring ADMA Pages for Virtualization
- ADMA page configuration should be done by the host OS, which has access to the ADMA_GLOBAL
registers. Each guest OS only has access to the corresponding ADMA channel page. This restriction is done outside of APE. 1. For each ADMA OS page N:
- Assign ADMA channel groups to ADMA pages in ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_CHGRP. Each
channel group has four ADMA channels.
- Enable the ADMAIF_TX channel that the page can access in
ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_TX_REQUESTORS.
- Enable the ADMAIF_RX channel that the page can access in
ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_RX_REQUESTORS.

- APE Registers
- Program whether the page can access ARAM (ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_ARAM_CFG). It is
recommended Guest OS does not have access to ARAM. 2. For each ADMA channel N:
- Assign REGION_ID in ADMA_GLOBAL_CH[N]_REGION_ID. For channel that belongs to the
same page should be assigned with the same REGION_ID.}.Body)
