# 7.9.1 Functional Description

The following outlines the memory tiling formats and the pixel formats that may be produced and
#### 7.9.1.1 Tiling Formats
This SoC supports the memory formats described in the following section. MSS clients can support block linear formats and pitch-linear formats. Refer to the description of each device for more details on the modes supported. Pitch linear arranges pixels in raster array order, and is useful for clients that interact directly or indirectly with the CPU or that make horizontal (or linear) accesses to memory.

- Pixel Memory Formats
Block linear is a tiled format optimized for clients that access regions of pixels across more than one line.
- Table 7.117 Client Shared Tiling Formats
- Format
- Status
- Used for
- Description
- Pitch Linear
- Supported by
some clients
- Software-compatibility, clients that
linearly access memory
- Simple array ordering
- Block linear 16Bx2 with
- TEGRA RAW or XBAR RAW
sector ordering
- Supported by
all clients
- GPU color surfaces, clients that access
memory in blocks or vertically
- Square DRAM page
arrangement (blocks) with folded atoms The tiling format describes the organization of bytes within a surface. The tiling formats convert an (x, y) offset of a sample in a surface to a linear address. To do the translation, they require additional information about the surface.
- Parame
ter
- Use
d by
- Description
- Values
- Minimum Alignment1
- Layout
- All
- Surface layout
- PITCH, BLOCKLINEAR
- Not Applicable
- Base
- Address
- Pitch
- Starting address
of surface, in bytes 40-bit virtual address -or- 40-bit physical address
- Not Applicable

