# 8.0 8.0 1.000000000 8.0 16.0 0.500000000 2147483648 16.0 44.1 0.362811791 1558264779 48.0 44.1 1.088435374 379827040 44.1 8.0 5.512500000 2201170739 8.0 192.0 0.041666667 178956971 192.0 96.0 2.000000000

##### 7.7.3.20.4 On-the-Fly Ratio Updates from Software
Configure STREAM<i>_CONFIG_RATIO_TYPE to FROM_SW mode.
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_INTEGER_PART = 5-bit integer portion of RATIO_INT);
see description in the previous section.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_FRAC_PART = 32-bit fractional portion of RATIO_FRAC);
see description in the previous section.
- Configure (ASRC_STREAM<i>.RATIO_LOCK_STATUS = LOCK) for the new ratio to be used by
hardware. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.5 On-the-Fly Ratio Updates from ARAD
Configure (STREAM<i>_CONFIG.RATIO_TYPE) = FROM_ARAD).
- Configure (STREAM<i>_CONFIG.LANE_ID = same lane ID as used by ARAD for the
corresponding ratio update packets. Connect ASRC "Ratio Update CIF" to ARAD's TxCIF to receive the ratio updates from ARAD. Set (AXBAR_PART_1_ASRC1_RX7_0.ARAD1_TX1 = 1). Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.6 ASRC Hardware Ratio Compensation
It is recommended to enable Hardware Ratio Compensation for all I/O to I/O use cases irrespective of ratios: Configure ENABLE_HW_RATIO_COMP in the ASRC_STREAM<i>_CONFIG register.
- Configure NORMAL_WMARK and UPPER_WMARK for the input buffer in the
ASRC_STREAM1_RX_THRESHOLD register. Default values of 6 (upper) and 4 (normal) cause too much ratio compensation to happen. Experiments show 6 and 3 are suitable.
- Configure NORMAL_WMARK and LOWER_WMARK for the output buffer in the
ASRC_STREAM1_TX_THRESHOLD register. Default values of 2 (normal) and 1 (upper) cause too much ratio compensation to happen. Experiments show 3 (normal) and 0 (lower) seems to be more suitable. Configure COMP_VALUE in the ASRC_STREAM1_RATIO_COMP register.
- Initially COMP_VALUE = 0xffff helped covering all I/O-I/O scenarios
- COMP_VALUE = 0x3ffff seemed to help bring the buffer levels back to normal levels
without applying any software work-around. This was tested for 48 -> 48 and 48 -> 8 conversion ratios. Need more conversion ratios to be tested to finally conclude a value. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the stream number.
##### 7.7.3.20.7 Setting ASRC Input and Output Start Buffer Threshold:
Configure WORD_CNT in the ASRC_STREAM1_RX_THRESHOLD register for input. Configure WORD_CNT in the ASRC_STREAM1_TX_THRESHOLD register for output.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
By default, both are set to "2" (which means 64 samples), which is sufficient. In the worst case, this corresponds to a total buffering delay of ~8 mS (= 64 / 8 kHz). In case software needs to reduce the buffering delay, it can try configuring these fields to even lesser values (1 or 0).
##### 7.7.3.20.8 Configure ASRC CIF's APR Settings
ASRC follows other AHUB modules with respect to input and output samples security. Hence if the input that comes over the ACIF is APR enabled, output is also APR enabled. To disable APR_EN for output: Software needs to configure ASRC_GLOBAL_DISARM_APR_0 register.
- Disable access to the DISARM_APR register by setting
- ASRC_GLOBAL_DISARM_APR_ACCESS_CTRL register to "1". This register can be modified
only via SECURE register access.
##### 7.7.3.20.9 To Secure ASRC Intermediate Data Buffer
For securing the intermediate data buffer: Configure (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.APR_EN = 1). Configure (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.APR_REGION_ID = APR region parameters). Set (GLOBAL_APR_CTRL.ACCESS_CTRL = 1) to disable access to the APR_CTRL register. This register can be modified only via SECURE register access.
- Once the above three registers are configured, GLOBAL_SCRATCH_ADDR should be
configured with an address belonging to APR region to ensure proper operation.
#### 7.7.3.21 ARAD Programming Guidelines
1. Check if the lane is in disabled state before using it: If (LANE_STATUS.LANE<i>_ENABLED == FALSE). Choose the Numerator and Denominator Clocks for the lane: Configure LANE<i>_NUMERATOR_MUX_SEL and LANE<i>_DENOMINATOR_MUX_SEL. Configure Numerator and Denominator Prescalars if required: Configure LANE<i>_NUMERATOR_PRESCALAR and/or LANE<i>_DENOMINATOR_PRESCALAR. Enable the lane for use: Set (LANE_ENABLE.LANE<i>_ENABLE = 1). After using a lane, disable it: Set (LANE_ENABLE.LANE<i>_ENABLE = 0). 2. 3. 4. 5. Note: i = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 for the lane number.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.3.22 ADMA Programming Guidelines
##### 7.7.3.22.1 ADMA Transfers
1.
- Software should not attempt to write into registers of an active channel after the
TRANSFER_ENABLE bit is set to "1." Accesses to the following registers are exceptions to this constraint:
- TRANSFER_PAUSE
- SOFT_RESET
2. Soft reset should not be applied when DMA transfers are in progress. It can only be applied when channel is hung or in PAUSE state.
- For disabling flow controlled DMA transfers (AHUB-to-Memory, AHUB-to-AHUB, and
- Memory-to-AHUB) from an ADMA channel, software should always disable it prior to
disabling the corresponding ADMAIF channel.
- Software should wait until the TRANSFER_ENABLED status bit goes low and clear any
pending Interrupts for re-enabling a disabled channel.
- TRANSFER_COUNT should be set to a non-zero value
- Software should ensure AHUB_FIFO_CTRL_0_TX_FIFO_SIZE or
- AHUB_FIFO_CTRL_0_RX_FIFO_SIZE registers in an ADMA channel and
- FIFO_CTRL_0_DMA_FIFO_SIZE register of AHUB channel mapped to this ADMA channel are
programmed to the same value. ADMA and AHUB channel mapping is done through CTRL_0_RX_REQUEST_SELECT or CTRL_0_TX_REQUEST_SELECT registers in ADMA.
- TRANSFER_COUNT status may not reflect the true value while transfer is in progress, so the
channel should be PAUSED for getting the correct status.
- Software may choose to terminate a transfer or disable a channel abruptly by clearing the
- TRANSFER_ENABLE bit or wait until hardware disables it automatically up on normal
completion of transfer.
- Software should wait until the TRANSFER_ENABLED status bit goes low before changing any
of the ADMA channel control and configuration registers. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
##### 7.7.3.22.2 Configuring ADMA Pages for Virtualization
- ADMA page configuration should be done by the host OS, which has access to the ADMA_GLOBAL
registers. Each guest OS only has access to the corresponding ADMA channel page. This restriction is done outside of APE. 1. For each ADMA OS page N:
- Assign ADMA channel groups to ADMA pages in ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_CHGRP. Each
channel group has four ADMA channels.
- Enable the ADMAIF_TX channel that the page can access in
ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_TX_REQUESTORS.
- Enable the ADMAIF_RX channel that the page can access in
ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_RX_REQUESTORS.

- APE Registers
- Program whether the page can access ARAM (ADMA_GLOBAL_PAGE[N]_ARAM_CFG). It is
recommended Guest OS does not have access to ARAM. 2. For each ADMA channel N:
- Assign REGION_ID in ADMA_GLOBAL_CH[N]_REGION_ID. For channel that belongs to the
same page should be assigned with the same REGION_ID.

