# 8.1.1 Overview

- The NVIDIA Deep Learning Accelerator (NVDLA) is a fixed function engine used to accelerate
inference operations on convolution neural networks (CNNs). NVDLA is designed to do full hardware acceleration of convolutional neural network. NVDLA supports various layers such as convolution, deconvolution, fully-connected, activation, pooling, local response normalization, and fully connected layers. NVDLA is primarily used for the Advanced Driver Assistant System (ADAS) in the SoC. As one stage of the CV pipeline, NVDLA receives Region of Interest (ROIs) from Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA) and/or Image Signal Processor (ISP) and detects cars, pedestrians, traffic signals, and bicycles. The primary use-cases for NVDLA are:
- Internal NVIDIA DNN models, like NVDriveNet
- External automotive and embedded customer DNN models
- Academic DNN models, like AlexNet, GoogleNet, and ResNet
Visit the NVDLA Open Source Project (nvdla.org) for additional information on deep learning, convolution neural networks, and accelerating deep learning inference operations.

- Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA)
**Figure 8.1 DLA Block Diagram**
#### 8.1.1.1 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Host Controller
- Hardware Safety Manager (HSM)
- Pixel Memory Format
#### 8.1.1.2 Glossary
- Term
- Description
- Accumulated sum
Output of ACCU unit. Accumulated sum is the sum of one or more partial sums.

- Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA)
- Term
- Description
- ATOMIC_M
- The size in bytes of one atom in 2D surfaces. The dimensions of one atom are 1x1xATOMIC_M
where ATOMIC_M is 32Bytes.
- ATOM
The basic unit in feature cube. Its dimension is 1x1xATOMIC MBytes.
- ATOMIC_C
Convolution only. The number of elements in one atomic operation in the convolution pipeline. 64 for INT8 by default.
- ATOMIC_CS
- The number of elements in one atomic operation in convolution pipeline in channel
dimension. 128 for INT8 by default.
- ATOMIC_K
The number of kernels in one kernel group.
- BDMA
Bridge DMA. BDMA transform data from CVSRAM to MC and vice versa.
- CARB
- Cbuf Arbiter, a module instanced in CPIPE
- CBB
Control backbone. A system control data path that connected to NVDLA.
- CDMA
Convolution DMA. Responsible for load image/weight/feature data to convolution pipeline.
- CFGDMA
ConfigDMA, a sub-unit responsible for configuring registers of sub-units. The value of registers is from UB or MC.
- CNN
Convolutional Neural Networks. Consists of multiple layers, including convolution layer, pooling layer, normalization layer, etc.
- CPIPE
- Convolution pipeline which contains sub-units CBUF, CSC, CMAC, and CACC. One NVDLA IP can
contain multiple CPIPEs.
- CPP
- Short for CPIPE
- CV
- Computer Vision
- CW
- Compressed Weight
- Data cube
All input feature data and pixel data can be viewed as a 3-dimension cube marked as W x H x C.
- DBB
Data backbone. The NoC and external memory system that NVDLA connects to.
- DC
- Direct Convolution mode
- DFD
- Design For Debug
- DLA
- Same as NVDLA
- DWP
Depth-wise processor. A functional sub-unit inside Rubik to process depth-wise convolution and direction convolution. Only FP16 is supported in DWP.
- Element
The basic unit of each data type involved in NVDLA computing. For pixel format, one element refers to a component of pixel.
- ES
- Engine scheduler, one sub-unit of GP
- Feature data
The output data of hardware layer. Feature data is generated from one hardware layer and can be used as input data for the next hardware layer. HOG data and pixel data which is used in the first layer of a CNN are not feature data.
- GROUP_SIZE
The channel number of one kernel group, only used by group convolution.

- Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA)
- Term
- Description
- GOB
Group of Blocks. A structure of mapping blocks in block linear format.
- GP
- Graph processor, a sub-unit responsible for schedule different engines to achieve certain
function.
- HOG
- Histogram of Oriented Gradients
- HW-layer
One complete hardware process. It starts with a set of register configurations with an enable field. When it is complete, it triggers one interrupt.
- HSM
Hardware Safety Manager. HSM is a sub-module inside Safety and Camera Engine (SCE) cluster. Its main purpose is to monitor error signals from different modules and signal a safety MCU external to the SoC when such an error happens. K
- The kernel number of convolutions
- KC
Kernel Cube. Includes weights: ATOMIC_C*ATOMIC_K*R*S elements.
- LIC
Legacy Interrupt Controller. A central interrupt controller for summarizing general interrupts from interrupt source engines, managing interrupt type and priorities, and forwarding to CPUs.
- MAC CELL
- Basic schedule unit in CONV_MAC. Contains 64 MUL/ADDER (multiply then add) for INT8
- NCHW
- Alias of M-planar format. NCHW refers to Batch-Channel-Height-Width
- NVDLA
- NVIDIA Deep Learning Accelerator
- OP_ATOMIC_M
- The size of basic unit of SDP_OPRDMA corresponding to the ATOMIC_M of SDP
P
- Output height of the convolution
- Partial sum
Output of MAC CELL. Usually the partial result of a convolution.
- PDP
Planar data processor. A functional sub-unit in SDP.
- Planar
The method of representing pixel colors with several bit-planes of RAM.
- PVA
- Programmable Vision Accelerator
Q
- Output width of the convolution
- RDMA
- Read DMA. Instanced in SDP/CDP/PDP/RUBIK engines and responsible for load input data from
external memory (either MC or CVSRAM).
- ROI
Region Of Interest. Refers to a rectangle of image or an entire image. ROI can be sent by PVA or Camera. R/S The height/width of a convolution kernel respectively.
- Rubik
- Data operation processor. A functional sub-unit in the NVDLA engine to support data layout
transformation. It also contains DWP.
- SDP
Single data processor. A functional sub-unit in NVDLA engine.
- SDP-X
- One processing unit in the SDP pipeline: a total of two SDP-Xs in one SDP pipe
- Slice cube
A part of a data cube. For a W x H x C cube, a slice refers to a W x 1 x C sub-cube.
- SP
Sparsity Pattern. The metadata for compressed weight.

- DLA Functional Description
- Term
- Description
- Stripe length
- The number of output elements within one stripe operation. Its value varies in different
convolution modes of CPIPE and DWP.
- Surface cube
A part of a data cube. For a W x H x C cube, a surface refers to a W x H x 16 sub-cube for int16/ fp16 or W x H x 32 sub-cube for int8.
- THI
Tegra Host Interface. An interface module between Host Controller and Falcon.
- UBUF
Unified buffer. An internal buffer unit in NVDLA2.0.
- WDMA
- Write DMA. Instanced in SDP/CDP/PDP/RUBIK engines and responsible for write output data to
external memory (either MC or CVSRAM). 3D convolution/ pool Convolution/pool that uses a filter that has extra dimension compared to 2D convolution/pool.

