# 8.2.1 Overview

The Programmable Vision Accelerator (PVA) is an application-specific instruction vector processor that targets computer-vision, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), autonomous driving, along with virtual and mixed reality applications. These are some key areas where PVA capabilities are a good match for algorithmic domains that need to have a predictable processing capability, at low power and low latency. PVA is a critical component of the Computer Vision (CV) subsystem which also contains an ISP engine, the CPU, GPU, and hardware accelerators like NVDLA (NVIDIA's Deep Learning Accelerator), VIC (for LDC), and NVENC (for optical flow). A PVA cluster has the following components:
- Two Vector Processing Units (VPU)
- Two DMA Controllers
A Cortex-R5 based control subsystem A dedicated 1 MiB RAM L2 Buffer
#### 8.2.1.1 Vector Processing Unit
Each Vector Processing Unit (VPU) has a vector core, an instruction cache, and an access to three vector data memories (3 x 128 KiB). The VPU has a single instruction stream with Very Long Instruction Word (VLIW) slots for both scalar and vector instructions. Vector instructions provide bulk of the processing power while scalar instructions are used for parameter preparation and conditional operation.
#### 8.2.1.2 Decoupled Lookup Unit (DLUT)
To offload VPU from processing parallel table lookup with replication, PVA added a decoupled table lookup unit that interacts with VPU to offer higher throughput lookup operations with minimal memory bank conflicts. The DLUT can operate concurrently and in parallel with the VPU process pipeline.
#### 8.2.1.3 DMA Controller
Each DMA has the following features:

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)

