# 8.2.2 PVA Functional Description

@{Key=8.2.2; Title=PVA Functional Description; Body=#### 8.2.2.1 PVA Interconnect
PVA has MMIO control interconnect and data backbone interconnect. The interconnect has the following features:
- Transaction Timeout for each target
- Error reporting
- Parity protection for control registers
- Safety error detection and reporting
- Read interleaving
- WRAP to INCR conversion for MC1

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
#### 8.2.2.2 PVA Boot Sequence
PVA goes through the same boot sequence after any of CV rail gating, PVA power gating, or PVA reset. All PVA configuration registers are contained in PVA cluster and upon reset all contents assume default values. The bootloader needs to reprogram all required configuration space as described below. After the boot-load process, the PVA Cortex-R5 runs the PVA image.
##### 8.2.2.2.1 Vector Processor Subsystem Description
The VPU core is a vector SIMD VLIW DSP optimized for computer vision. It fetches instructions through the I-cache and accesses data through the vector memory (VMEM). Major components inside the VPU core are:
- Processor front end: including config/status interface and PC control
- Scalar register file
- Vector register file
- Scalar unit: with two scalar ALUs
- Vector unit: with two vector ALUs
- Memory unit: with three load/store units and address generators
The VPU instruction format is seven-way VLIW, consisting:
- Two scalar operation slots
- Two vector operation slots
- Three memory slots
Each instruction is encoded in 32-bits, and the instruction encoding supports variable-length instructions, thus each execution packet contains between one and seven 32-bit words. The compressed instruction stream is decompressed to full seven instructions per packet and dispatched to the scalar, vector, and memory units. The front end of the processor includes an interface to the instruction cache, 2-level hardware loops, and the fetch/decode stages of the processor pipeline.
- Scalar Unit
The scalar unit supports conventional scalar RISC instruction set. There is a 32-entry, 32-bit, scalar register file. The scalar unit supports two scalar operations per cycle. 32-bit integer/fixed-point as well as 32-bit floating point Add, Sub, Mul, and MAdd operations are supported. Other floating-point operations are emulated in software.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Vector Unit
The vector unit supports various vector processing instructions. There is a 32-entry, 384-bit, vector register file. The vector unit supports two vector operations per cycle. Vector Register File (VRF), processing, and load/store instructions have notion of lane partitioning according to data type. The following data types are supported:
- Word, VRF, and processing as eight lanes x 48-bit, load/store as eight lanes x 32-bit
- Half-word, VRF, and processing as 16 lanes x 24-bit, load/store as 16 lanes x 16-bit
- Byte, VRF, and processing as 32 lanes x 12-bit, load/store as 32 lanes x 8-bit
Various arithmetic/logic operations are implemented in the vector unit. In addition to conventional arithmetic/logic operations. Only integer/fixed-point operations are supported.
- Load/Store Unit
The load/store unit supports up to three load/store instructions. Word, half-word, byte, and some type promotion/demotion are supported. For load (and not for store), both signed/unsigned flavors are supported. Source and destination can be single scalar register, double scalar register, single vector register, or double vector register. Quad-vector-register store is also available to facilitate key filtering benchmarks. Load/store unit also supports various data distributions. In general, memory transactions from load/store instructions should be executed in order through memory dependency checking and dynamic stalling. The VPU has a rich set of load/store features, and for some features it is not feasible to implement the dependency checking. Scalar load/store instructions as well as consecutive-location vector load/store are included in the dependency checking, so they are guaranteed to execute in order. Transposing load/store, parallel table lookup, parallel histogram, and vector addressed stores are excluded from the checking, so they are not guaranteed to execute in order.
##### 8.2.2.2.2 Clock Gating Requirements
The PVA Cortex-R5 software can enable/disable the Vector Processor Subsystem (VPS) clock via the power management unit at the PVA Cluster level. VPS contains second level clock gating (SLCG) that, when enabled, automatically gates off VPU clock to most of VPU and VMEM.
##### 8.2.2.2.3 Design for Test and Debug
- Debug Features
- The VPU has a CoreSight/APB-based debug interface that's hooked up to system-level JTAG
interface and is accessible through JTAG or through CPU software. The VPU debug features are: Enter/exit debug state.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Read program memory
- Invalidate I-cache. Debug writing program memory is implemented by writing to system
memory then invalidates I-cache, which drives I-cache to refetch from system memory. Read/write VMEM.
- Directly feed instruction word to be executed
Read/write processor registers, including PC, scalar/vector register file, hardware loop control registers, predicate register file, and again config register file (through injection of instruction sequence to store the relevant register into VMEM then reading VMEM).
- Read/write GPO, read GPI (through injection of instruction sequence)
- Read/write PC (through injection of instruction sequence)
- Read/write Shadow Execution State (SES) register. The VPU execution state (active, WFE_R5,
- WFE_GPI, error-halted, or halted) before transitioning into debug state is saved in this
register. It is read/write accessible by debug software via OCD_LD/OCD_ST instructions, and can be changed to drive VPU to a different state after exiting the debug state.
- Single step execution
24 watch or break points (combined, for example we can configure them into 18 watch points (VMEM read/write) and six break points (PC).
- Software break points (unlimited), program contents substituted with SWBRK instruction,
upon execution of which, VPU is forced to enter debug state.
- Cross-trigger input/output, to optionally allow other processors enter/exit debug to cause
VPU to enter/exit debug, and vice versa.
##### 8.2.2.2.4 Error Handling
VPU has the following features to detect various errors, mostly to help with software development and debug:
- Illegal instruction detection
- Scalar divide by zero error
- Floating point invalid outcome
Each error source is configurable whether to error-halt in the ERR_HNDL_CFG register. When an error occurs, an interrupt is sent to the Safety and Event Control (SEC) block in PVA top level, where the interrupts are optionally forwarded to Vectored Interrupt Controller (VIC) then to the Cortex- R5. Cortex-R5 and/or SEC can optionally forward error events to system-level error collator. The VPU instruction set allows a register dump assembly sequence to be run, to first save scalar register file, then some scalar registers are over-written to save the rest of the architecture registers.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
##### 8.2.2.2.5 Computation Capabilities
As VPS is an embedded processor subsystem architected for computer vision applications, the following are considered the key computation capabilities. Common operations: For common binary (2-input-1-output) operations like add, subtract, min, max, bitwise and logical, AND, OR, etc., and unary (1-input-1-output) operations like negate, bitwise and logical, NOT, etc. The VPU delivers full vector width utilization (16 x 32-bit, 32 x 16-bit, 64 x 8-bit) in the inner loop. Filtering: Filtering is the key function in image processing and front end of computer vision. VPS delivers full MAC utilization in the filtering inner loop with 16-bit data and 16-bit coefficients. This means 64 multiply-adds per cycle (two vector slots x two term dot-product x 16 half-word lanes). For 8-bit data and 8-bit coefficients, VPU should deliver 128 multiply-adds per cycle (two vector slots x two term dot-product x 32-byte lanes). Interpolated lookup: Interpolated lookup is often used to accelerate various transcendental functions and whatever functions that can be pre-computed at linear spaced points and run-time interpolated. The VPU delivers 3/32 cycles per point throughput for 16-bit input/output. Basically, it takes two bit-extract operations and a blend operation with concurrent 32-way parallel table lookup, to implement interpolated lookup. Histogram: Histogram is a common function in computer vision. VPU delivers 1/8 cycle per 32-bit data point, 1/16 cycle per 16-bit data point, of weighted histogram throughput. Furthermore, with the weighted histogram itself taking one load + one store, there is sufficient memory and vector math slots to implement with the same throughput 2D histogram. FFT: Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) is a basic digital signal processing function, and is often used for radar processing, acceleration of large filtering problems, and for various frequency analysis applications. The VPU does not exceed 1.5 cycles/point for 32-bit data,16-bit twiddle factor, 1024- point FFT. Sorting: Sorting is a basic and versatile compute vision function, and is often used for key/feature matching, for ranking and selection of many outcomes. The VPU does not exceed three cycles/ point for 32-bit data, 1024-point sorting. Floating point: Some floating-point workload is expected in embedded vision applications, for Structure from Motion or Sparse Bundle Adjustment. The VPU supports floating point operations in the scalar unit, achieving peak performance of 1.6 GFLOPs, or 1.6 billion floating point operations per second.
- Function
- Test Case
- Test Configuration
- Innerloop Performance
- Common op
stim/array_add1 16-bit addition 1/32 cycles per pixel (cyc/ pix)
- Filtering 16-bit
stim/filter5 3x3 kernel, 16-bit filtering, kernel rounded up to 3x4 6/32 cyc/pix

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Function
- Test Case
- Test Configuration
- Innerloop Performance
- Filtering 8-bit
stim/filter_8b 3x3 kernel, 8-bit filtering, kernel rounded up to 4x4 8/64 cyc/pix
- Interpolated
lookup 16-bit
- ISA_special_math_
tests 16-bit reciprocal 7/32 cyc/pix
- Histogram 16-
bit histogram/ double_histogram 32-way short lookup 2/32 cyc/pix
- Histogram 32-
bit histogram/ double_histogram 16-way int lookup 2/16 cyc/pix
- FFT 32-bit
- Host_fft_batch_int
1024 complex 32-bit data points, 16-bit twiddle factor
## 1.5 cycles per feature point
(cyc/pt)
- Sorting 32-bit
- Host_sort_int
4096 32-bit data points 3 cyc/pt
- FP matrix-vector
multiply 64 x 64 matrix multiplying 64 x 1 vector
## 1.6 FP MAdds /cyc
- SGM
480 x 270 16-bit image, 64 disparities, 5x5 census transform, 3x3 HD, fast LR check, round/clip to store path cost and sum-of-path- cost in 8-bit 1 + 41.2 + 34.3) * 1.3 cyc/pix
- DBSCAN
- Host_dbscan_usho
rt 2048 input bounding boxes, 170 past thresholding 120K cycles
##### 8.2.2.2.6 Instruction Cache
- The VPU Instruction Cache (I-cache) supplies instruction data to the VPU when requested,
requests missing instruction data from system memory, and maintains temporary instruction storage for the VPU. It also implements the prefetch command to reduce cache misses, as well as the invalidation command as needed for error correction and debug. The following table captures the characteristics of the I-cache.
- Table 8.7 I-cache Characteristics
- Characteristic
- Configuration
- Capacity
16 KB
- Associativity
- Two way
- Instruction width
256 bit
- Instruction alignment
256 bit
- Block size
128 bytes
- Replacement policy
- Least Recently Used (LRU)
- Write policy
- None (I-cache read only)

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Characteristic
- Configuration
- Hit under miss (nonblocking, if/when VPU
requests another instruction word that's available, go ahead and return hit)
- No, fetch interface is in-order, so after a miss, if following fetch request
hits, it's not possible to indicate so.
- Miss under miss (if/when VPU requests
another instruction word that's unavailable, request for that cache line as well)
- Yes (request/ready pipelining allows following fetch request to be
conveyed, and if it's a miss involving another cache line, request can be sent out as well)
- Hit latency
- Two cycles
- Prefetch (software request to fetch cache
lines ahead of execution)
- Yes, up to full cache in single Cortex-R5/VPU interaction. Depending on
outstanding transaction allocation may request in batches
- Prefetch request from Cortex-R5 and VPU
- Yes, it has separate config register entries for concurrency
- Prefetch and fetch concurrency
- Yes, giving fetch higher priority
- ECC single error correction
- Yes, corrected on the fly and sent back to VPU
- ECC single/double error detection
- Yes. Single error is corrected but is not written back to cache, single
error handling software should invalidate cache line to initiates refetch when the line is requested.
- Invalidation from Cortex-R5
- Yes, configurable address range
- Invalidation from VPU
- Yes, configurable address range
##### 8.2.2.2.7 Vector Memory
VPU vector memory (VMEM) contains three superbanks of memory and arbitration logic to support various load/store accesses from VPU and external client, which includes DMA. VMEM houses local data memory for VPU to access so it can implement various image processing and computer vision algorithms efficiently. VMEM supports various complex memory access functionality for VPU, including transposition, table lookup, histogram, vector addressed stores. It also supports accesses from outside-VPS hosts like DMA and Cortex-R5, to allow data exchange with Cortex-R5 and other system-level components.
- VMEM includes VMEM Interface (I/F) arbitration block and three VMEM superbanks as shown
below.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
**Figure 8.19 VMEM Block Diagram**
- VMEM Superbanks
- The three memory superbanks appear as three memory regions in the VPU memory map,
differentiated by high address bits to allow programmers to allocate, based on memory footprint and bandwidth needs. Typically, one memory region is assigned to time-share between VPU and DMA, and the two remaining regions are accessed only by VPU so can be 100% allocated to load/ store instructions. It's also possible to use two regions to ping/pong between DMA and VPU, and to allocate only one region 100% to load/store. Each superbank has 64 KB of capacity. Each superbank consists of 32 banks of 2 KB (16-bit wide) RAMs. Each of the 32 memory banks are independently addressable per clock cycle. This enables a rich set of access patterns:
- Read/write one byte on any byte alignment
- Read/write one 16-bit half-word on any half-word alignment
- Read/write one 32-bit word on any word alignment
- Read/write 8 or 16 consecutive 32-bit words from any half-word alignment
- Read/write 16, 24, or 32 consecutive 16-bit half-words from any half-word alignment

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
Read/write 32 or 64 consecutive 8-bit bytes from any half-word alignment (starting odd byte is not supported and is forcefully aligned to an even byte, and generates an error interrupt to
- Cortex-R5)
- Read/write 8 or 16 words with 16K+1-word offset, useful for column-wise access of 32-bit
array
- Read/write 16 or 32 half-words with 32K+1-half-word offset, useful for column-wise access
of 16-bit array
- Read/write 32 bytes with 64K+2-byte offset, useful for column-wise access of 8-bit array
Read/write independent memory rows in each 16-bit bank, leveraged by parallel table lookup, parallel histogram, and vector addressed store
- Table Lookup
- VMEM Superbanks support parallel table lookup with the following data element size and
parallelism combinations:
- For byte element size, 1/2/4/8/16/32 ways of parallelism
- For half-word (16-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16/32 ways of parallelism
- For word (32-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16 ways of parallelism
The VPU sends a table base address (512-bit or 64-byte aligned) and an index vector to the VMEM
- Interface. The VPU also sends along addressing mode (to convey that it's a table lookup
transaction), element size and parallelism as sideband signals. The first K elements of the index vector are consumed for K-way lookup; the rest are ignored.
##### 8.2.2.2.8 Histogram
VMEM Superbanks support parallel histogram with the following data element size and parallelism combinations:
- There is no byte element size support
- For half-word (16-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16/32 ways of parallelism
- For word (32-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16 ways of parallelism
The VPU sends a histogram base address (512-bit or 64-byte aligned), an index vector and an update vector to the VMEM Interface. The VPU also sends along addressing mode (to convey that it's a histogram transaction), element size and parallelism as sideband signals. Compared to conventional/normal histogram, VPU parallel histogram feature implements weighted histogram (by allowing an update vector to be added instead of only incrementing by one), and supports bin value read-back, which is useful in certain applications.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
##### 8.2.2.2.9 Vector Addressed Store
- VMEM Superbanks support vector addressed store, which is also called reverse lookup, since
instead of reading back indexed entries, data is written to the indexed entries. We support the maximal parallelism, 32 half-word and 16-word configurations.
#### 8.2.2.3 DLUT Description
DLUT supports parallel lookup with one common table, DLUT also supports one configuration of contention free lookup/interpolation most helpful in accelerating target CV workloads. DLUT also supports table reformatting needed to bridge between DMA and DLUT or VPU lookup operations. Table reformatting by DLUT can offload VPU processing cycles with higher performance and lower power.
#### 8.2.2.4 DLUT Features
- The DLUT shall provide these functionalities
1D/2D lookup from one common table, with conflict detection/resolution 1D/2D lookup from parallel tables, inherently conflict-free Optional integer only or fixed-point integer + fraction indices, via configurable number of fractional bits
- Optional 1D/2D post-lookup interpolation
1D lookup with linear interpolation 2D lookup with bilinear interpolation
- Out-of-range sentinel return value
- Out-of-range predicate off output write
- Configurable X/Y offset to translate between global coordinates and local coordinates
- Table reformatting as a separate operation mode
- Indices can be unsigned 16-bit, or 32-bit (each X or Y in case of 2D lookup)
Table entries (and output) can be 8-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit, signed or unsigned, and entry data type is independent of index data type 2D lookup and interpolation with indices automatically generated by DLUT, limited to Word indices and Halfword table entries
#### 8.2.2.5 DMA Unit Description
PVA DMA is a data and tile movement engine that is programmed for data transfer from anywhere to everywhere in the PVA cluster/MC subsystem space. The DMA maintains a high level of system

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
efficiency on the external memory interface bus to DRAM, CVNAS, SysRAM, and VIDMEM (dGPU memory). The DMA maximizes the throughput and minimize the transfer time on the bus.
##### 8.2.2.5.1 DMA Features
- Table 8.8 List of Supported Features in DMA Hardware
- Feature
- Benefit
- Multi-dimensional addressing
- Five dimensions
- Linked List
- To reduce programming overhead and to reduced latency of
software interaction
- Channel Arbitration
- Supports Weighted RR arbitration
- Boundary handling (constant, repeat)
- Reduce VPU workload
- Software sequencer
- Flexibility
- DMA MISR (Func. Safety)
- Permanent fault detection and Software BIST
2D and Circular buffer aware
- Buffer management
- Hardware event-based DMA
- For triggers and sequencing
- Block Linear Support
- Raw format
- Outstanding requests
272 for reads and 128 for writes
- True completion
- Maintains Order
The DMA block exists as a sub-IP component in PVA, one per VPU. Since the first instance of PVA has two VPU's, there are two instances of the DMA per PVA. Each of these instances brings out a master port. Hence at the boundary of DMA, there is one AXI 256-bit master port (data) and one AXI 32-bit slave port (control and configuration). The diagram below shows the CV cluster with two PVAs and two DMAs in one PVA.
- The CCPLEX core in the SoC serves as a task sequencer (operates at the frame or sub-frame
boundary) and launch frame level algorithms. Cortex-R5 and VPU firmware sequencing should be used to implement various dynamic/static data transfer scenarios with little regularity. Both Cortex-R5 and VPU have a low latency path to program the DMA. The Cortex-R5 sets up the DMA descriptors at the beginning of a task and starts the VPU. Most of the time and for regular processing, it is the VPU that triggers the DMA and synchronize with DMA transfers at a tile level. The VPU triggers the DMA to copy next data tiles into VMEM (or copy previous processed tiles from VMEM to outside) while it is working on the current tile. In some cases, the VPU needs to copy data from a run-time computed address. In this case, the VPU configures the DMA descriptors to collect data from a region with a newly computed address.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
##### 8.2.2.5.2 DMA Description
- The DMA block has four main components: DMA Channel Control, DMA AXI Control, DMA VMEM
Control, and DMA Configuration. DMA Channel Control:
- DMA has 16 channels and each channel controller (DMA engine) is responsible for processing
descriptors via a DMA descriptor processor block per channel.
- DMA has 64 descriptors stored in a RAM and each descriptor has 64 Bytes of information to
capture the attributes of:
- Source/destination address
- Trigger control
- Pad control per channel
- Buffer control
5-dimensional addressing control
- Transfer mode control
5D (five dimensions) tile transfer engine per channel
- Address and boundary padding control per channel
- Burst control per channel
- DMA channel scheduler
- MISR control block
- - -
- Accelerated PVA Software functional BIST
- Covers permanent faults for functional safety (mainly for VPU and DMA)
- Certifies the health of VPU at a programmable interval
- Channel Arbitration
- -
- Source and Destination Arbitration
- SRAM request Arbitration
DMA AXI Control is Responsible for AXI Transactions:
- Queuing and buffering
- AXI Muxing/De-muxing
- MISR updates on the AXI interface
- Outstanding request control
- Configurable Surface Transfer format (Block Linear or Pitch Linear)
DMA VMEM Control Block is Responsible for Issuing SRAM Transactions:
- Read Write arbitration
- Pad and boundary Control (Constant or extended padding values)
DMA Configuration Block to Configure:

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Global registers
- Channel registers
- Interrupt handling
- Error and Safety control
- Performance Monitors
- Descriptor RAM
#### 8.2.2.6 PVA_PROC: Cortex-R5 Subsystem
The PVA_PROC (Cortex-R5 subsystem) consists of one Cortex-R5F processor with double precision floating point processor, its associated TCMs (ATCM and BTCM) and associated I-cache/D-cache.
- PVA_PROC also connects to a vectored interrupt controller (PL192 ARM or AVIC). Cortex-R5
subsystem also shares PVA cluster peripheral including timers, mailboxes, and debug logic.
##### 8.2.2.6.1 Cortex-R5 Configuration
The Cortex-R5 is configured with the following features:
- ARMv7-R ISA
- Instruction cache and data cache of 16 KB each
128 KB of SRAM attached to BTCM0 as one bank
- ATCM base address set to 0
- Init Low Vectors
- Floating Point
##### 8.2.2.6.2 Power Management
The whole CV cluster can be rail gated or each PVA cluster can be power gated separately. There is no inner cluster power gating. For the current PVA generation, VPS0 and VPS1 partitions can't be power gated separately by Cortex-R5 or from external control. The power processor (BPMP) is responsible for any frequency settings for PVA and it is the BPMP responsibility for CV voltage scaling. BPMP is also responsible for all power up and power down sequence.
##### 8.2.2.6.3 HSP
Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP) has different hardware synchronization primitives as detailed in the following table.
- Primitive
- Count
- Description
- SM (mail box)
To support a single writer/single reader model.
- SS (Shared Semaphores)
- Used as flags for producer/consumer

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Primitive
- Count
- Description
nSI (Shared interrupt)
- Can be used to map 16 mailbox interrupts
- Doorbells
- PVA has no doorbells
##### 8.2.2.6.4 Mailboxes
PVA cluster can use mailboxes to implement inter-processor communication (IPC) or unidirectional communication with CPU cores and other SoC masters. The PVA cluster instances one HSP module to communicate asynchronously with CPU and other engines. There are eight mailboxes in PVA. Each mailbox is one 32 bits register with two associated interrupts to implement the software handshake. The two interrupts per mailbox are for empty and full flags that are directly under software control. The full interrupt is the MSB of the register, called the TAG bit and the empty interrupt is the inversion of the TAG bit. The messaging in mailboxes is defined by software convention where the producer of the mailbox may get interrupted on mailbox empty and then write data with TAG set to 1 into the mailbox to trigger the full interrupt. On the other hand, the consumer of the mailbox may get interrupted on mailbox full, read the data and then write to the mailbox register with TAG field set to 0 to complete the handshake. Polling is an alternative solution and can be used by either the producer or the consumer. Each mailbox has an SCR to allow for secure access. HSP SCRs are located in first page of SM: PVA0/1_HSP_SM0_BASE. Shared mailboxes are 32 KB apart and a pair is mapped in a 64 KB page.
- The base for a given mailbox is SMx_BASEx = HSP_PVA{0/1}_BASE + 64 KB
{ PVA0/1_HSP_COMMON} + x * 32 KB.
##### 8.2.2.6.5 Shared Semaphores
There are four shared semaphores which are registers with associated set/clear addresses to allow easy manipulation of individual bits inside them, i.e., without the need for a RMW operation. Shared semaphores are accessed by either PVA-R5 or outside masters (including CCPLEX). Software must statically allocate the ownership of individual semaphores for correct operation. The shared semaphores are formed by three registers, each 32-bits wide: A read/write register showing the current value of the semaphore
- Two read/write registers to set and clear individual semaphore bits
##### 8.2.2.6.6 Shared Interrupts
Shared interrupts are located in the common register space and there are five shared interrupts that can be used to map the 16 mailbox interrupts.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
#### 8.2.2.7 Timers
The following table and diagram show the configuration of timers and the block diagram of timers in PVA.
- Parameter
- Value
- Number of NV_timers (nT)
- Number of watchdogs (nW)
- Interrupt routing
- Disabled
- Number of shared interrupts exposed
- Each one of the timers has a 29-bit count and can be programmed to generate one pulse or
periodic reference pulses. The timing reference clock for each of the timers can be the 1 MHz reference, TSC or OSC clk. Upon enable, the timer loads the timer present trigger value into its counter and starts decrementing at the rate it was selected. When the counter present value reaches zero, a pulse is generated. In case the periodic interrupt mode is enabled, the timer reloads the PTV value and start decrementing again. The pulse from the timer is translated into an interrupt to AVIC/Cortex-R5. Each NV timer has one associated interrupt, which is set when the down counter reaches 0. For 1 MHz reference, the timer has a range between 1 µs and 537 sec. Each NV timer can optionally be halted during debug.
- The TKE block contains four NV timers and one watchdog timer. There are also few common
registers and SCR registers.

- System Components
9. System Components
## 9.1 Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)}(@{Key=8.2.2; Title=PVA Functional Description; Body=#### 8.2.2.1 PVA Interconnect
PVA has MMIO control interconnect and data backbone interconnect. The interconnect has the following features:
- Transaction Timeout for each target
- Error reporting
- Parity protection for control registers
- Safety error detection and reporting
- Read interleaving
- WRAP to INCR conversion for MC1

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
#### 8.2.2.2 PVA Boot Sequence
PVA goes through the same boot sequence after any of CV rail gating, PVA power gating, or PVA reset. All PVA configuration registers are contained in PVA cluster and upon reset all contents assume default values. The bootloader needs to reprogram all required configuration space as described below. After the boot-load process, the PVA Cortex-R5 runs the PVA image.
##### 8.2.2.2.1 Vector Processor Subsystem Description
The VPU core is a vector SIMD VLIW DSP optimized for computer vision. It fetches instructions through the I-cache and accesses data through the vector memory (VMEM). Major components inside the VPU core are:
- Processor front end: including config/status interface and PC control
- Scalar register file
- Vector register file
- Scalar unit: with two scalar ALUs
- Vector unit: with two vector ALUs
- Memory unit: with three load/store units and address generators
The VPU instruction format is seven-way VLIW, consisting:
- Two scalar operation slots
- Two vector operation slots
- Three memory slots
Each instruction is encoded in 32-bits, and the instruction encoding supports variable-length instructions, thus each execution packet contains between one and seven 32-bit words. The compressed instruction stream is decompressed to full seven instructions per packet and dispatched to the scalar, vector, and memory units. The front end of the processor includes an interface to the instruction cache, 2-level hardware loops, and the fetch/decode stages of the processor pipeline.
- Scalar Unit
The scalar unit supports conventional scalar RISC instruction set. There is a 32-entry, 32-bit, scalar register file. The scalar unit supports two scalar operations per cycle. 32-bit integer/fixed-point as well as 32-bit floating point Add, Sub, Mul, and MAdd operations are supported. Other floating-point operations are emulated in software.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Vector Unit
The vector unit supports various vector processing instructions. There is a 32-entry, 384-bit, vector register file. The vector unit supports two vector operations per cycle. Vector Register File (VRF), processing, and load/store instructions have notion of lane partitioning according to data type. The following data types are supported:
- Word, VRF, and processing as eight lanes x 48-bit, load/store as eight lanes x 32-bit
- Half-word, VRF, and processing as 16 lanes x 24-bit, load/store as 16 lanes x 16-bit
- Byte, VRF, and processing as 32 lanes x 12-bit, load/store as 32 lanes x 8-bit
Various arithmetic/logic operations are implemented in the vector unit. In addition to conventional arithmetic/logic operations. Only integer/fixed-point operations are supported.
- Load/Store Unit
The load/store unit supports up to three load/store instructions. Word, half-word, byte, and some type promotion/demotion are supported. For load (and not for store), both signed/unsigned flavors are supported. Source and destination can be single scalar register, double scalar register, single vector register, or double vector register. Quad-vector-register store is also available to facilitate key filtering benchmarks. Load/store unit also supports various data distributions. In general, memory transactions from load/store instructions should be executed in order through memory dependency checking and dynamic stalling. The VPU has a rich set of load/store features, and for some features it is not feasible to implement the dependency checking. Scalar load/store instructions as well as consecutive-location vector load/store are included in the dependency checking, so they are guaranteed to execute in order. Transposing load/store, parallel table lookup, parallel histogram, and vector addressed stores are excluded from the checking, so they are not guaranteed to execute in order.
##### 8.2.2.2.2 Clock Gating Requirements
The PVA Cortex-R5 software can enable/disable the Vector Processor Subsystem (VPS) clock via the power management unit at the PVA Cluster level. VPS contains second level clock gating (SLCG) that, when enabled, automatically gates off VPU clock to most of VPU and VMEM.
##### 8.2.2.2.3 Design for Test and Debug
- Debug Features
- The VPU has a CoreSight/APB-based debug interface that's hooked up to system-level JTAG
interface and is accessible through JTAG or through CPU software. The VPU debug features are: Enter/exit debug state.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Read program memory
- Invalidate I-cache. Debug writing program memory is implemented by writing to system
memory then invalidates I-cache, which drives I-cache to refetch from system memory. Read/write VMEM.
- Directly feed instruction word to be executed
Read/write processor registers, including PC, scalar/vector register file, hardware loop control registers, predicate register file, and again config register file (through injection of instruction sequence to store the relevant register into VMEM then reading VMEM).
- Read/write GPO, read GPI (through injection of instruction sequence)
- Read/write PC (through injection of instruction sequence)
- Read/write Shadow Execution State (SES) register. The VPU execution state (active, WFE_R5,
- WFE_GPI, error-halted, or halted) before transitioning into debug state is saved in this
register. It is read/write accessible by debug software via OCD_LD/OCD_ST instructions, and can be changed to drive VPU to a different state after exiting the debug state.
- Single step execution
24 watch or break points (combined, for example we can configure them into 18 watch points (VMEM read/write) and six break points (PC).
- Software break points (unlimited), program contents substituted with SWBRK instruction,
upon execution of which, VPU is forced to enter debug state.
- Cross-trigger input/output, to optionally allow other processors enter/exit debug to cause
VPU to enter/exit debug, and vice versa.
##### 8.2.2.2.4 Error Handling
VPU has the following features to detect various errors, mostly to help with software development and debug:
- Illegal instruction detection
- Scalar divide by zero error
- Floating point invalid outcome
Each error source is configurable whether to error-halt in the ERR_HNDL_CFG register. When an error occurs, an interrupt is sent to the Safety and Event Control (SEC) block in PVA top level, where the interrupts are optionally forwarded to Vectored Interrupt Controller (VIC) then to the Cortex- R5. Cortex-R5 and/or SEC can optionally forward error events to system-level error collator. The VPU instruction set allows a register dump assembly sequence to be run, to first save scalar register file, then some scalar registers are over-written to save the rest of the architecture registers.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
##### 8.2.2.2.5 Computation Capabilities
As VPS is an embedded processor subsystem architected for computer vision applications, the following are considered the key computation capabilities. Common operations: For common binary (2-input-1-output) operations like add, subtract, min, max, bitwise and logical, AND, OR, etc., and unary (1-input-1-output) operations like negate, bitwise and logical, NOT, etc. The VPU delivers full vector width utilization (16 x 32-bit, 32 x 16-bit, 64 x 8-bit) in the inner loop. Filtering: Filtering is the key function in image processing and front end of computer vision. VPS delivers full MAC utilization in the filtering inner loop with 16-bit data and 16-bit coefficients. This means 64 multiply-adds per cycle (two vector slots x two term dot-product x 16 half-word lanes). For 8-bit data and 8-bit coefficients, VPU should deliver 128 multiply-adds per cycle (two vector slots x two term dot-product x 32-byte lanes). Interpolated lookup: Interpolated lookup is often used to accelerate various transcendental functions and whatever functions that can be pre-computed at linear spaced points and run-time interpolated. The VPU delivers 3/32 cycles per point throughput for 16-bit input/output. Basically, it takes two bit-extract operations and a blend operation with concurrent 32-way parallel table lookup, to implement interpolated lookup. Histogram: Histogram is a common function in computer vision. VPU delivers 1/8 cycle per 32-bit data point, 1/16 cycle per 16-bit data point, of weighted histogram throughput. Furthermore, with the weighted histogram itself taking one load + one store, there is sufficient memory and vector math slots to implement with the same throughput 2D histogram. FFT: Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) is a basic digital signal processing function, and is often used for radar processing, acceleration of large filtering problems, and for various frequency analysis applications. The VPU does not exceed 1.5 cycles/point for 32-bit data,16-bit twiddle factor, 1024- point FFT. Sorting: Sorting is a basic and versatile compute vision function, and is often used for key/feature matching, for ranking and selection of many outcomes. The VPU does not exceed three cycles/ point for 32-bit data, 1024-point sorting. Floating point: Some floating-point workload is expected in embedded vision applications, for Structure from Motion or Sparse Bundle Adjustment. The VPU supports floating point operations in the scalar unit, achieving peak performance of 1.6 GFLOPs, or 1.6 billion floating point operations per second.
- Function
- Test Case
- Test Configuration
- Innerloop Performance
- Common op
stim/array_add1 16-bit addition 1/32 cycles per pixel (cyc/ pix)
- Filtering 16-bit
stim/filter5 3x3 kernel, 16-bit filtering, kernel rounded up to 3x4 6/32 cyc/pix

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Function
- Test Case
- Test Configuration
- Innerloop Performance
- Filtering 8-bit
stim/filter_8b 3x3 kernel, 8-bit filtering, kernel rounded up to 4x4 8/64 cyc/pix
- Interpolated
lookup 16-bit
- ISA_special_math_
tests 16-bit reciprocal 7/32 cyc/pix
- Histogram 16-
bit histogram/ double_histogram 32-way short lookup 2/32 cyc/pix
- Histogram 32-
bit histogram/ double_histogram 16-way int lookup 2/16 cyc/pix
- FFT 32-bit
- Host_fft_batch_int
1024 complex 32-bit data points, 16-bit twiddle factor
## 1.5 cycles per feature point
(cyc/pt)
- Sorting 32-bit
- Host_sort_int
4096 32-bit data points 3 cyc/pt
- FP matrix-vector
multiply 64 x 64 matrix multiplying 64 x 1 vector
## 1.6 FP MAdds /cyc
- SGM
480 x 270 16-bit image, 64 disparities, 5x5 census transform, 3x3 HD, fast LR check, round/clip to store path cost and sum-of-path- cost in 8-bit 1 + 41.2 + 34.3) * 1.3 cyc/pix
- DBSCAN
- Host_dbscan_usho
rt 2048 input bounding boxes, 170 past thresholding 120K cycles
##### 8.2.2.2.6 Instruction Cache
- The VPU Instruction Cache (I-cache) supplies instruction data to the VPU when requested,
requests missing instruction data from system memory, and maintains temporary instruction storage for the VPU. It also implements the prefetch command to reduce cache misses, as well as the invalidation command as needed for error correction and debug. The following table captures the characteristics of the I-cache.
- Table 8.7 I-cache Characteristics
- Characteristic
- Configuration
- Capacity
16 KB
- Associativity
- Two way
- Instruction width
256 bit
- Instruction alignment
256 bit
- Block size
128 bytes
- Replacement policy
- Least Recently Used (LRU)
- Write policy
- None (I-cache read only)

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Characteristic
- Configuration
- Hit under miss (nonblocking, if/when VPU
requests another instruction word that's available, go ahead and return hit)
- No, fetch interface is in-order, so after a miss, if following fetch request
hits, it's not possible to indicate so.
- Miss under miss (if/when VPU requests
another instruction word that's unavailable, request for that cache line as well)
- Yes (request/ready pipelining allows following fetch request to be
conveyed, and if it's a miss involving another cache line, request can be sent out as well)
- Hit latency
- Two cycles
- Prefetch (software request to fetch cache
lines ahead of execution)
- Yes, up to full cache in single Cortex-R5/VPU interaction. Depending on
outstanding transaction allocation may request in batches
- Prefetch request from Cortex-R5 and VPU
- Yes, it has separate config register entries for concurrency
- Prefetch and fetch concurrency
- Yes, giving fetch higher priority
- ECC single error correction
- Yes, corrected on the fly and sent back to VPU
- ECC single/double error detection
- Yes. Single error is corrected but is not written back to cache, single
error handling software should invalidate cache line to initiates refetch when the line is requested.
- Invalidation from Cortex-R5
- Yes, configurable address range
- Invalidation from VPU
- Yes, configurable address range
##### 8.2.2.2.7 Vector Memory
VPU vector memory (VMEM) contains three superbanks of memory and arbitration logic to support various load/store accesses from VPU and external client, which includes DMA. VMEM houses local data memory for VPU to access so it can implement various image processing and computer vision algorithms efficiently. VMEM supports various complex memory access functionality for VPU, including transposition, table lookup, histogram, vector addressed stores. It also supports accesses from outside-VPS hosts like DMA and Cortex-R5, to allow data exchange with Cortex-R5 and other system-level components.
- VMEM includes VMEM Interface (I/F) arbitration block and three VMEM superbanks as shown
below.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
**Figure 8.19 VMEM Block Diagram**
- VMEM Superbanks
- The three memory superbanks appear as three memory regions in the VPU memory map,
differentiated by high address bits to allow programmers to allocate, based on memory footprint and bandwidth needs. Typically, one memory region is assigned to time-share between VPU and DMA, and the two remaining regions are accessed only by VPU so can be 100% allocated to load/ store instructions. It's also possible to use two regions to ping/pong between DMA and VPU, and to allocate only one region 100% to load/store. Each superbank has 64 KB of capacity. Each superbank consists of 32 banks of 2 KB (16-bit wide) RAMs. Each of the 32 memory banks are independently addressable per clock cycle. This enables a rich set of access patterns:
- Read/write one byte on any byte alignment
- Read/write one 16-bit half-word on any half-word alignment
- Read/write one 32-bit word on any word alignment
- Read/write 8 or 16 consecutive 32-bit words from any half-word alignment
- Read/write 16, 24, or 32 consecutive 16-bit half-words from any half-word alignment

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
Read/write 32 or 64 consecutive 8-bit bytes from any half-word alignment (starting odd byte is not supported and is forcefully aligned to an even byte, and generates an error interrupt to
- Cortex-R5)
- Read/write 8 or 16 words with 16K+1-word offset, useful for column-wise access of 32-bit
array
- Read/write 16 or 32 half-words with 32K+1-half-word offset, useful for column-wise access
of 16-bit array
- Read/write 32 bytes with 64K+2-byte offset, useful for column-wise access of 8-bit array
Read/write independent memory rows in each 16-bit bank, leveraged by parallel table lookup, parallel histogram, and vector addressed store
- Table Lookup
- VMEM Superbanks support parallel table lookup with the following data element size and
parallelism combinations:
- For byte element size, 1/2/4/8/16/32 ways of parallelism
- For half-word (16-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16/32 ways of parallelism
- For word (32-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16 ways of parallelism
The VPU sends a table base address (512-bit or 64-byte aligned) and an index vector to the VMEM
- Interface. The VPU also sends along addressing mode (to convey that it's a table lookup
transaction), element size and parallelism as sideband signals. The first K elements of the index vector are consumed for K-way lookup; the rest are ignored.
##### 8.2.2.2.8 Histogram
VMEM Superbanks support parallel histogram with the following data element size and parallelism combinations:
- There is no byte element size support
- For half-word (16-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16/32 ways of parallelism
- For word (32-bit) element size, 1/2/4/8/16 ways of parallelism
The VPU sends a histogram base address (512-bit or 64-byte aligned), an index vector and an update vector to the VMEM Interface. The VPU also sends along addressing mode (to convey that it's a histogram transaction), element size and parallelism as sideband signals. Compared to conventional/normal histogram, VPU parallel histogram feature implements weighted histogram (by allowing an update vector to be added instead of only incrementing by one), and supports bin value read-back, which is useful in certain applications.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
##### 8.2.2.2.9 Vector Addressed Store
- VMEM Superbanks support vector addressed store, which is also called reverse lookup, since
instead of reading back indexed entries, data is written to the indexed entries. We support the maximal parallelism, 32 half-word and 16-word configurations.
#### 8.2.2.3 DLUT Description
DLUT supports parallel lookup with one common table, DLUT also supports one configuration of contention free lookup/interpolation most helpful in accelerating target CV workloads. DLUT also supports table reformatting needed to bridge between DMA and DLUT or VPU lookup operations. Table reformatting by DLUT can offload VPU processing cycles with higher performance and lower power.
#### 8.2.2.4 DLUT Features
- The DLUT shall provide these functionalities
1D/2D lookup from one common table, with conflict detection/resolution 1D/2D lookup from parallel tables, inherently conflict-free Optional integer only or fixed-point integer + fraction indices, via configurable number of fractional bits
- Optional 1D/2D post-lookup interpolation
1D lookup with linear interpolation 2D lookup with bilinear interpolation
- Out-of-range sentinel return value
- Out-of-range predicate off output write
- Configurable X/Y offset to translate between global coordinates and local coordinates
- Table reformatting as a separate operation mode
- Indices can be unsigned 16-bit, or 32-bit (each X or Y in case of 2D lookup)
Table entries (and output) can be 8-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit, signed or unsigned, and entry data type is independent of index data type 2D lookup and interpolation with indices automatically generated by DLUT, limited to Word indices and Halfword table entries
#### 8.2.2.5 DMA Unit Description
PVA DMA is a data and tile movement engine that is programmed for data transfer from anywhere to everywhere in the PVA cluster/MC subsystem space. The DMA maintains a high level of system

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
efficiency on the external memory interface bus to DRAM, CVNAS, SysRAM, and VIDMEM (dGPU memory). The DMA maximizes the throughput and minimize the transfer time on the bus.
##### 8.2.2.5.1 DMA Features
- Table 8.8 List of Supported Features in DMA Hardware
- Feature
- Benefit
- Multi-dimensional addressing
- Five dimensions
- Linked List
- To reduce programming overhead and to reduced latency of
software interaction
- Channel Arbitration
- Supports Weighted RR arbitration
- Boundary handling (constant, repeat)
- Reduce VPU workload
- Software sequencer
- Flexibility
- DMA MISR (Func. Safety)
- Permanent fault detection and Software BIST
2D and Circular buffer aware
- Buffer management
- Hardware event-based DMA
- For triggers and sequencing
- Block Linear Support
- Raw format
- Outstanding requests
272 for reads and 128 for writes
- True completion
- Maintains Order
The DMA block exists as a sub-IP component in PVA, one per VPU. Since the first instance of PVA has two VPU's, there are two instances of the DMA per PVA. Each of these instances brings out a master port. Hence at the boundary of DMA, there is one AXI 256-bit master port (data) and one AXI 32-bit slave port (control and configuration). The diagram below shows the CV cluster with two PVAs and two DMAs in one PVA.
- The CCPLEX core in the SoC serves as a task sequencer (operates at the frame or sub-frame
boundary) and launch frame level algorithms. Cortex-R5 and VPU firmware sequencing should be used to implement various dynamic/static data transfer scenarios with little regularity. Both Cortex-R5 and VPU have a low latency path to program the DMA. The Cortex-R5 sets up the DMA descriptors at the beginning of a task and starts the VPU. Most of the time and for regular processing, it is the VPU that triggers the DMA and synchronize with DMA transfers at a tile level. The VPU triggers the DMA to copy next data tiles into VMEM (or copy previous processed tiles from VMEM to outside) while it is working on the current tile. In some cases, the VPU needs to copy data from a run-time computed address. In this case, the VPU configures the DMA descriptors to collect data from a region with a newly computed address.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
##### 8.2.2.5.2 DMA Description
- The DMA block has four main components: DMA Channel Control, DMA AXI Control, DMA VMEM
Control, and DMA Configuration. DMA Channel Control:
- DMA has 16 channels and each channel controller (DMA engine) is responsible for processing
descriptors via a DMA descriptor processor block per channel.
- DMA has 64 descriptors stored in a RAM and each descriptor has 64 Bytes of information to
capture the attributes of:
- Source/destination address
- Trigger control
- Pad control per channel
- Buffer control
5-dimensional addressing control
- Transfer mode control
5D (five dimensions) tile transfer engine per channel
- Address and boundary padding control per channel
- Burst control per channel
- DMA channel scheduler
- MISR control block
- - -
- Accelerated PVA Software functional BIST
- Covers permanent faults for functional safety (mainly for VPU and DMA)
- Certifies the health of VPU at a programmable interval
- Channel Arbitration
- -
- Source and Destination Arbitration
- SRAM request Arbitration
DMA AXI Control is Responsible for AXI Transactions:
- Queuing and buffering
- AXI Muxing/De-muxing
- MISR updates on the AXI interface
- Outstanding request control
- Configurable Surface Transfer format (Block Linear or Pitch Linear)
DMA VMEM Control Block is Responsible for Issuing SRAM Transactions:
- Read Write arbitration
- Pad and boundary Control (Constant or extended padding values)
DMA Configuration Block to Configure:

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Global registers
- Channel registers
- Interrupt handling
- Error and Safety control
- Performance Monitors
- Descriptor RAM
#### 8.2.2.6 PVA_PROC: Cortex-R5 Subsystem
The PVA_PROC (Cortex-R5 subsystem) consists of one Cortex-R5F processor with double precision floating point processor, its associated TCMs (ATCM and BTCM) and associated I-cache/D-cache.
- PVA_PROC also connects to a vectored interrupt controller (PL192 ARM or AVIC). Cortex-R5
subsystem also shares PVA cluster peripheral including timers, mailboxes, and debug logic.
##### 8.2.2.6.1 Cortex-R5 Configuration
The Cortex-R5 is configured with the following features:
- ARMv7-R ISA
- Instruction cache and data cache of 16 KB each
128 KB of SRAM attached to BTCM0 as one bank
- ATCM base address set to 0
- Init Low Vectors
- Floating Point
##### 8.2.2.6.2 Power Management
The whole CV cluster can be rail gated or each PVA cluster can be power gated separately. There is no inner cluster power gating. For the current PVA generation, VPS0 and VPS1 partitions can't be power gated separately by Cortex-R5 or from external control. The power processor (BPMP) is responsible for any frequency settings for PVA and it is the BPMP responsibility for CV voltage scaling. BPMP is also responsible for all power up and power down sequence.
##### 8.2.2.6.3 HSP
Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP) has different hardware synchronization primitives as detailed in the following table.
- Primitive
- Count
- Description
- SM (mail box)
To support a single writer/single reader model.
- SS (Shared Semaphores)
- Used as flags for producer/consumer

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
- Primitive
- Count
- Description
nSI (Shared interrupt)
- Can be used to map 16 mailbox interrupts
- Doorbells
- PVA has no doorbells
##### 8.2.2.6.4 Mailboxes
PVA cluster can use mailboxes to implement inter-processor communication (IPC) or unidirectional communication with CPU cores and other SoC masters. The PVA cluster instances one HSP module to communicate asynchronously with CPU and other engines. There are eight mailboxes in PVA. Each mailbox is one 32 bits register with two associated interrupts to implement the software handshake. The two interrupts per mailbox are for empty and full flags that are directly under software control. The full interrupt is the MSB of the register, called the TAG bit and the empty interrupt is the inversion of the TAG bit. The messaging in mailboxes is defined by software convention where the producer of the mailbox may get interrupted on mailbox empty and then write data with TAG set to 1 into the mailbox to trigger the full interrupt. On the other hand, the consumer of the mailbox may get interrupted on mailbox full, read the data and then write to the mailbox register with TAG field set to 0 to complete the handshake. Polling is an alternative solution and can be used by either the producer or the consumer. Each mailbox has an SCR to allow for secure access. HSP SCRs are located in first page of SM: PVA0/1_HSP_SM0_BASE. Shared mailboxes are 32 KB apart and a pair is mapped in a 64 KB page.
- The base for a given mailbox is SMx_BASEx = HSP_PVA{0/1}_BASE + 64 KB
{ PVA0/1_HSP_COMMON} + x * 32 KB.
##### 8.2.2.6.5 Shared Semaphores
There are four shared semaphores which are registers with associated set/clear addresses to allow easy manipulation of individual bits inside them, i.e., without the need for a RMW operation. Shared semaphores are accessed by either PVA-R5 or outside masters (including CCPLEX). Software must statically allocate the ownership of individual semaphores for correct operation. The shared semaphores are formed by three registers, each 32-bits wide: A read/write register showing the current value of the semaphore
- Two read/write registers to set and clear individual semaphore bits
##### 8.2.2.6.6 Shared Interrupts
Shared interrupts are located in the common register space and there are five shared interrupts that can be used to map the 16 mailbox interrupts.

- Programmable Computer-Vision Accelerator (PVA)
#### 8.2.2.7 Timers
The following table and diagram show the configuration of timers and the block diagram of timers in PVA.
- Parameter
- Value
- Number of NV_timers (nT)
- Number of watchdogs (nW)
- Interrupt routing
- Disabled
- Number of shared interrupts exposed
- Each one of the timers has a 29-bit count and can be programmed to generate one pulse or
periodic reference pulses. The timing reference clock for each of the timers can be the 1 MHz reference, TSC or OSC clk. Upon enable, the timer loads the timer present trigger value into its counter and starts decrementing at the rate it was selected. When the counter present value reaches zero, a pulse is generated. In case the periodic interrupt mode is enabled, the timer reloads the PTV value and start decrementing again. The pulse from the timer is translated into an interrupt to AVIC/Cortex-R5. Each NV timer has one associated interrupt, which is set when the down counter reaches 0. For 1 MHz reference, the timer has a range between 1 µs and 537 sec. Each NV timer can optionally be halted during debug.
- The TKE block contains four NV timers and one watchdog timer. There are also few common
registers and SCR registers.

- System Components
9. System Components
## 9.1 Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)}.Body)
