# 802.3 -2008 standard. It interfaces to the line side with the XGMII and with a native interface to the system side. These system-side interfaces, called the MAC Transmit Interface (MTI) and the MAC Receive Interface (MRI) are synchronous, respectively, to the XGMII transmit and XGMII receive clocks. In addition to these interfaces, the application can access the Control and Status Registers (CSR) through an APB4 interface. XGMAC-MTL layer introduces a FIFO buffer into the transmit and receives paths. It interfaces to the system with native interfaces called the Application Transmit Interface (ATI) and Application

- Receive Interface (ARI). These interfaces are synchronous to the system clock. APB4 Slave
interface is used to access CSRs inside the unit.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description The AXI master interface permits multiple numbers of burst requests to be queued for Read or Write operation. The descriptor transfers have priority over the data transfers. Therefore, if there is an Rx Descriptor Read and a Tx Data Read request, the Rx Descriptor Read is given priority so that the next Rx Data Write (subsequent to Rx Descriptor Read) does not have to wait for the Tx Data Read transfer to complete. If there are descriptor read requests from both DMAs, these requests are serviced based on the first-come first-serve basis. The Rx DMA has priority if descriptor read requests, generated from both DMAs, are in the same clock. Similarly, in the write channel, descriptor writes from any DMA have priority than the data-write transfers for the Rx DMA. The AXI master supports the little-endian and byte-invariant big-endian modes on the AXI master ports. The AXI master does not support narrow transfers and always performs full data-width transfers.
- Whenever there is an error response from the AXI slave, the respective DMA channel, which
generated the request gets disabled. The XGMAC-AXI master asserts the interrupt (sbd_intr_o) when the corresponding “Fatal Bus Error” interrupt is enabled. Only the DMA whose specific transaction had the error response gets affected and goes to STOP state. The application can reinitialize that specific DMA and restart the operation. The traffic on the other channels does not get affected if an Error is detected for a DMA Channel. The DMA has independent Transmit (Tx) and Receive (Rx) engines, and a CSR space. The Tx engine transfers data from the system memory to the device port (MTL), whereas the Rx engine transfers data from the device port to the system memory. The controller uses descriptors to move data efficiently from source to destination with minimal application CPU intervention. The DMA is designed for packet-oriented data transfers such as packets in Ethernet. The controller can be programmed to interrupt the application CPU for situations such as Packet Transmit and Receive Transfer completion, and other normal or error conditions. The DMA and the application communicate through the following two data structures:
- Control and Status registers (CSR)
- Descriptor lists and data buffers
The DMA transfers the data packets received by the MAC to the Rx buffer in system memory. The DMA transfers the Tx data packets from the Tx buffer in the system memory. The descriptors that reside in the system memory contain the pointers to these buffers. The DMA supports up to 10 Tx and 10 Rx Descriptor lists (or DMA channels). The base address of each list is written to the respective Tx Descriptor List Address register and Rx Descriptor List Address register. The descriptor list is forward linked, and the next descriptor is always considered at a fixed offset to the current one. Programming of the DSL field of DMA_Ch(#i)_Control register controls the offset. The number of descriptors in the list is programmed in the respective Tx (or Rx) Descriptor Ring Length register. After the DMA processes the last descriptor in the list, it jumps back to the descriptor in the List Address Register to create a descriptor ring. Each descriptor can point to a maximum of two buffers. This enables two buffers to be used, physically addressed, rather than contiguous buffers in memory. A data buffer resides in the application memory space and consists of an entire packet or part of a packet but cannot exceed a single packet. Buffers contain only data. Buffer status is maintained in the descriptor. Data

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description chaining refers to packets that span multiple data buffers. However, a single descriptor cannot span multiple packets. The DMA skips to the data buffer of next packet when EOP is detected. The DWC_xgmac supports the ring structure for the DMA descriptor.
- The XGMAC-AXI always uses Enhanced DMA (EDMA) controller. In EDMA, the following tasks
optimize the efficiency of packet transfer in parallel:
- Multiple Descriptor Fetch
- Data Transfer
- Descriptor Write Back
All DMA phases work independently in a pipelined fashion. The descriptor fetch of a new packet is performed with data transfer of the previous packet and the descriptor write back of the last to previous packet. In this way, packet transfers throughput are improved with minimal gaps between them.
#### 10.8.3.3 PCS Details
##### 10.8.3.3.1 XFI PCS
The PCS-R Transmit block implements the following functions: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC
10GBASE-R interface towards the PHY
- Performs 64B/66B encoding for block boundary determination
- Performs optional Forward Error Correction (FEC) encoding
- Performs scrambling to ensure transition density
- Generates test patterns
The following are the PCS-R Receive block features: Implements the following interfaces:
- XGMII interface towards the MAC
10GBASE-R interfaces from the PHY
- Performs 66-bit block alignment
- Performs optional FEC decoding
- Descrambles data to recover the original unscrambled data
- Performs 64B/66B decoding
Checks the test patterns.
- Performs Clock Rate compensation
The following figure displays the components of the PCS-R datapath.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.72 XFI PCS Datapath Components**
##### 10.8.3.3.2 USXGMII PCS
- Operating Speed Mode
MGBE supports the following speed modes of USXGMII:
- USXGMII_10G
- USXGMII_5G
- Table 10.34 USXGMII_10G Frequency and Data Widths
- Notes
- UPHY Output
- Data Rate
(Gbps)
- UPHY Input
(F=Frequency
- MHz
D=Data Width)
- PCS Output
(F=Frequency
- MHz
D=Data Width)
- Effective
- Speed
- MAC Output
(F=Frequency
- MHz
D=Data Width) 10G F= 312.5 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125 5G F= 312.5/2 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125
- PCS output is
duplicated 2x. 2.5G F= 312.5/4 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125
- PCS output is
duplicated 4x. CAR divisor programming for the previously mentioned three cases is as follows:

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description 10G Effective Speed This is the default speed mode of DWC_xpcs. In this mode, MAC is expected to send data at 10 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMII interface operates at 32-bit @ 312.5 MHz. The 32-bit XGMII data is converted to 64-bit at 156.25 MHz internally. This data is processed as per Clause 49 of IEEE 802.3 specification and finally sent of DWC_xpcs towards the UPHY at a rate of

