# 802.3 -2018 Pause control packets. 7:2

- RO
0x0 Reserved_7_2: Reserved.
- RW
0x0 UP:
- Unicast Pause Packet Detect. A pause packet is processed when it has
the unique multicast address specified in the IEEE 802.3-2018. When this bit is set, the MAC can also detect Pause packets with unicast address of the station. This unicast address should be as specified in
- MAC_Address0_High and MAC_Address0_Low. When this bit is reset,
the MAC only detects Pause packets with unique multicast address.
- Note: The MAC does not process a Pause packet if the multicast
address is different from the unique multicast address. This is also applicable to the received PFC packet when the Priority Flow Control (PFC) is enabled. The unique multicast address (0x01_80_C2_00_00_01) is as specified in IEEE 802.1Qbb-2011.

10G Ethernet Controller Core Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- RW
0x0 RFE:
- Receive Flow Control Enable. When this bit is set and the MAC is
operating in full-duplex mode, the MAC decodes the received Pause packet and disables its transmitter for a specified (Pause) time. When this bit is reset or when the MAC operates in half-duplex mode, the decode function of the Pause packet is disabled. When PFC is enabled, flow control is enabled for PFC packets. The MAC decodes the received
- PFC packet and disables the corresponding Traffic Class, with matching
priorities, for a duration of received Pause time.
- MGBE_DWCXG_CORE_MAC_RXQ_CTRL4_0
The Receive Queue Control 4 register controls the routing of - Packets which fail the Destination or
- Source Address filter and VLAN Filter. Packets refer to Express packets only when FPE is
configured - Preemptive Multicast/Broadcast packets when MCBCQEN of MAC_RxQ_Ctrl1 is enabled to a separate Rx Queue
- Offset: 0x94
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

