# 8 :6

- RW
0x7 PCIE_CAP_EP_L0S_ACCPT_LATENCY:
- Endpoint L0s Acceptable Latency. This field indicates the acceptable
total latency that an Endpoint can withstand due to the transition from
- L0s state to the L0 state. It is essentially an indirect measure of the
- Endpoint's internal buffering. Power management software uses the
reported L0s Acceptable Latency number to compare against the L0s exit latencies reported by all components comprising the data path from this Endpoint to the Root Complex Root Port to determine whether
- ASPM L0s entry can be used with no loss of performance. For functions
other than Endpoints, this field is Reserved and the controller hardwires it to 000b. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky.
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_EXT_TAG_SUPP:
- Extended Tag Field Supported. This bit, in combination with the 10-Bit
- Tag Requester Supported bit in the Device Capabilities 2 register,
indicates the maximum supported size of the Tag field as a Requester. This bit must be set if the 10-Bit Tag Requester Supported bit is set.
- Note: 8-bit Tag field generation must be enabled by the Extended Tag
- Field Enable bit in the Device Control register of the Requester Function
before 8-bit Tags can be generated by the Requester. See Section 2.2.6.2 of PCI Express Base Specification for interactions with enabling the use of 10-Bit Tags. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: -
- Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This
register field is sticky. 4:3
- RW
0x0 PCIE_CAP_PHANTOM_FUNC_SUPPORT:
- Phantom Functions Supported. This field indicates the support for use of
unclaimed function numbers to extend the number of outstanding transactions allowed by logically combining unclaimed function numbers (called Phantom Functions) with the Tag identifier (see Section 2.2.6.2 of
- PCI Express Base Specification for a description of Tag Extensions). With
every Function in an ARI Device, the Phantom Functions Supported field must be set to 00b. The remainder of this field description applies only to non-ARI Multi-Function Devices. This field indicates the number of most significant bits of the Function Number portion of Requester ID that are logically combined with the Tag identifier. Note: Phantom
- Function support for the function must be enabled by the Phantom
- Functions Enable field in the Device Control register before the Function
is permitted to use the Function Number field in the Requester ID for
- Phantom Functions. Note: The access attributes of this field are as
follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 2:0
- RW
0x1 PCIE_CAP_MAX_PAYLOAD_SIZE:
- Max_Payload_Size Supported. This field indicates the maximum payload
size that the function can support for TLPs. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. The functions of a Multi-Function Device are permitted to report different values for this field. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky.
- PCIE_X<j>_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_DEVICE_CONTROL_DEVICE_STATUS_0
where <j> = 4, 8.

- PCIe x4/x8 Endpoint
Description:This register controls PCI Express device specific parameters and provides information about PCI Express device (function) specific parameters.
- PCIE_X4_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_DEVICE_CONTROL_DEVICE_STATUS_0
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_DEVICE_CONTROL_DEVICE_STATUS_0
- Offset: 0x78
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00102810 (0b0000,0000,0001,0000,x010,1000,0001,0000)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

