# 9.1.3 Clock Controller

@{Key=9.1.3; Title=Clock Controller; Body=The clocking logic makes use of the following to provide the various clocks in the system, including the frequency of operation, clock quality, spread, and clock gating.
- Sources capable of generating frequencies independently or based on a reference clock –
- External oscillators, Phase-Locked Loops (PLLs), and Noise-Aware Frequency Locked Loops
(NAFLLs). Clock manipulation elements – switches, dividers, gates, skippers, trimmers, shapers, etc. The controls for these elements are present in the clock controller module. These controls may need to be sequenced in an appropriate manner to ensure that there are no glitches or other clock artifacts in the system. Key features include the following: Clock generation for all functional blocks. Register parity for clock configuration registers. LUT RAM parity for certain NAFLL LUTs. Clock Monitoring for certain clocks. Refer to the Safety Manual for details of the safety applications of the last three bullets.
#### 9.1.3.1 Clock Controller Functional Description
##### 9.1.3.1.1 Clock Inputs
- Crystal Oscillator Input
The SoC has a dedicated 38.4 MHz XTAL OSC input. All SoC core PLLs have the option of using a version of the OSC clock, osc_div_clk, as a reference. This has a divider, but the divider is always set to 1, so osc_div_clk is always 38.4 MHz. Some PLLs may also use another PLL output as a clock reference, or an external reference clock input. The OSC clock source most commonly (but not

- Clock Controller Functional Description
exclusively) used by the various clock muxes and switch-dividers is clk_m_sys_clk. This is a divided version of OSC. The reset default of the divider is DIV1, but then boot software sets the divider value to DIV2, so that clk_m_sys_clk is 19.2 MHz. AO modules use ao_clk_m, which is undivided.
**Figure 9.8 OSC Clocks**
Drive strength settings for the OSC pad cannot be changed during operation, as changing those settings causes the output of the OSC pad to glitch. The settings are used as the clock reference for the majority of the PLLs on the chip, therefore changing the drive strength setting must not occur.
- FSI_XTAL Clock Input
The SoC has a dedicated 40 MHz XTAL input for the safety island. The FSI_XTAL clock source is used directly to drive the FSI PLL. Additionally, it sources different units such as FSI CAN and FSI GPIO directly. 32K Clock The 32K clock is a 32,768 Hz clock input, provided by the PMIC. All references to 32K in the context of this clock represent this frequency, and can be interpreted as 32 KiHz, or (32 x 1024) Hz. This clock is used in PMC for various features, including reset generation, as well as by TSC and RTC as a timing reference. It is also available as a very low-speed clock source for various units during SC7, when most, if not all other clock sources have been powered down. In most places, this clock is referred to as clk_s_sys_clk.
**Figure 9.9 32K Clocks**

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Interface Clock Inputs
The SoC has various clock inputs specific to certain interfaces, which are taken as inputs from the platform (often the device at the other end of the interface). They are used to generate some or all of the internal clocks associated with that interface.
- HSIO UPHY Reference Clock Input
The HSIO UPHY has four differential reference clock pair inputs used as reference clocks for UPHY Brick PLLs. These 100 MHz inputs are used for PCIe endpoint mode.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- PEX_REFCLK0P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL0
- PEX_REFCLK1P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL1
- PEX_REFCLK2P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL2
- PEX_REFCLK3P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL3
- NVHS UPHY Reference Clock Input
The NVHS UPHY has two differential reference clock pair input used as a reference clock for the UPHY Brick PLLs, one each for up to two controllers. This input can be used with all supported protocols of the NVHS UPHY. These 100 MHz inputs are used for PCIe endpoint mode.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- NVHS0_REFCLK0_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- NVHS0_REFCLK1_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- GbE UPHY Reference Clock Input
The GbE UPHY has three differential reference clock pair input used as a reference clock inputs for GbE or PCIe interfaces.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- UPHY2__REFCLK0_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- UPHY2__REFCLK1_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- UPHY2__REFCLK2_P/N
100 MHz or 156.25 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode, 156.25 MHz if MGBE refernce is platform sourced.
- MIPI CSI Clock Inputs
The CSI Bricks receive one clock input per two data pairs. In DPHY mode, these clocks are used to receive the data and are used to derive the brick-sourced clocks for the NVCSI_CIL. In CPHY mode, the clock is recovered from the data.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- CSI_A_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_B_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_C_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_D_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_E_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_F_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_G_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_H_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- Reference Clock Outputs
- Generic Reference Output Clocks in Platform
Orin, as the application processor in platforms, has clock outputs that are used as the reference clock for various platform components in the system. The various platform components that typically source a reference clock from the SoC include camera sensors, touch controllers, and audio CODEC chips. For supporting the clock generation for the same, there are four generic clock switches, AUD_MCLK and TOUCH_CLK whose clock outputs are routed to various pads allocated for reference clock out in the system through pinmux.
- Interface Reference Clock Outputs
- UFS Device Reference Clock
UFS devices have strict clock quality requirements. A 19.2 MHz reference clock for the UFS device is generated from the 38.4 MHz OSC reference clock. This is done by selecting the default of clk_m_sys_clk as the clock source and the default divider of 1.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- UFSDEV_REF_CLK
## 19.2 MHz or 38.4 MHz
UFS reference clock.
- PCIe Reference Clock Outputs
The HSIO PCIe controllers have one differential reference clock pair output per controller used as a reference clock for the endpoint associated with that controller. This is a 100 MHz output used for PCIe root mode and is driven out of the SoC by a separate pad and not the HSIO UPHY itself.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- Reference clock output pad options
- PEX_CLK0P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C0 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick0 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to HSIO UPHY.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- Reference clock output pad options
- PEX_CLK1P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C1 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK2P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C2 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK3P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C3 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick1 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to HSIO UPHY.
- PEX_CLK4P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C4 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK5P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C5 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick2 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to NVHS UPHY.
- PEX_CLK6P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C6 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK7P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C7 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick3 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to GBE UPHY.
- PEX_CLK8P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C8 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK9P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C9 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK10P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C10 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick4 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to GBE UPHY.
##### 9.1.3.1.2 Auxiliary Processor Cluster Clocking
- Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters
All the Cortex-R5 subsystems have a hardware sequencer which has the ability to control the clock source and clock switch for the Cortex-R5 and the backbone in the cluster based on the hardware state of the cluster. Refer to the Always-On Cluster (AON) and SPE chapter more details. There is an interface with the Cortex-R5 modules PM block. Jumping to the appropriate frequency and turning off the clock sources that are not in use are possible using this sequencer. This is specifically useful in the AON subsystem when the BPMP (which controls the clocks and resets) is turned OFF.
- The AON Sequencer captures the details of sequencer programming model and different
configurations. If the sequencer is configured to control the NAFLL, then re-enabling NAFLL in BPMP/SCE/RCE clusters when Cortex-R5 is coming out of WFI state could lead to hang. If the NDIV is too low for the given voltage, NAFLL never asserts lock and Cortex-R5 PM hangs. To avoid the hang, use a programmable delay for the NAFLL lock to be asserted using the alternate configuration #5. Software can choose to put NAFLL under software control and not put it in a low power state (IDDQ or Disabled Mode) by using the alternative configuration #3.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- BPMP Cluster Clocking
BPMP clocks are required for the Cortex-R5 and cluster used for Boot and Power Management. There is a primary first level clock for the Cortex-R5 subsystem and there is a ratio synchronous clocks in the system for running the NIC. Other components like the CVC run on this BPMP-NIC clock. The primary clock for BPMP during the boot process is PLLP and the BPMP processor is started at the oscillator clock and transitions over to PLLP as early as possible in the flow. During the regular operation of the BPMP, AVFS-NAFLL is the source that follows the frequency scaling requirements for the processor as close to optimally as possible. The BPMP-fabric clock in the cluster is the ratio version of this clock. There is an independent APB clock that is also generated for this cluster and is sourced from PLLP for the most of the time. There are also first-level clocks generated for various subsystems in the BPMP cluster (ACTMON, SIMON, tsensor, soc_therm). Some of these clocks also become global clocks used in other clusters/chiplets as well. All these clocks are sourced from PLLP/OSC depending on the use-case. There is a switch divider which generates the bpmp_cpu_clk. This is used as a clock source for Cortex-R5. The clock used for the BPMP fabric is a derived version of the bpmp_cpu_clock and is called bpmp_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. bpmp_nic_clk is also used to clock the
- BPMP-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the
bpmp_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure. A second switch divider generates the bpmp_apb_clk. The clocking registers are arranged in a BPMP PAGE with the SUBPAGE for the group of registers for clocking structure called BPMP_CPU_NIC, SUBPAGE BPMP_APB, SUBPAGE for the sequencer related registers called the BPMP_SEQUENCER, subpage for the dedicated NAFLL, subpage for the common HPLL called PLLBPMPCAM, subpage for the ACTMON registers called ACTMON, SUBPAGE for SoC Therm related registers called SOC_THERM, SUBPAGE for the thermal sensors called TSENSOR, and a SUBPAGE for the monitor IP called SIMON.
- The hardware sequencer in BPMP reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section
- Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the bpmp_cpu_clk,
bpmp_nic_clk and the bpmp_apb_clk.
- SCE Cluster Clocking
The SCE provides a set of hardware features to function as the safety processor for functional safety applications. The cluster consists of two Cortex-R5 processor cores with a tightly coupled RAM, support peripherals (e.g. timers, interrupt controller), and routing logic. The SCE does not support operating each Cortex-R5 independently. There is a dedicated NAFLL for SCE which is the primary source. There is also a single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE called PLLBPMPCAM. This is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the sce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the SCE NoC is a derived version of the sce_cpu_clock and is called sce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. Sce_nic_clk is also

- Clock Controller Functional Description
used to clock the SCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the sce_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure.
- The hardware sequencer in SCE reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section
- Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the sce_cpu_clk and
sce_nic_clk.
- AON Cluster Clocking
Similar to the BPMP, the SPE’s Cortex-R5 also has the oscillator clock as the default. The AON subsystem is also capable of turning OFF the oscillator in SC7 use-cases where there is no work pending for the SPE for saving more power. On a wake, the oscillator is turned ON and based on the type of wake, SPE might need to run clocks in the cluster at a higher frequency. The AON PLL can be activated when VDD_SOC is OFF. AON PLL is also used for catering to the SPE and cluster I/Os in the ultra-low power use-cases. Apart from the Cortex-R5 core clock, there are a number of I/O controllers that need to be clocked either from AONPLL or OSC in the AON use-cases. PLLP is also present as a back up source in use-cases where the VDD_SOC power is ON. CAN, I2C, touch controller, PWM, etc., are examples of these I/O controllers. There is a switch divider which generates the aon_cpu_clk. This is used as a clock source for the Cortex-R5. The clock used for the AON NoC is a derived version of the aon_cpu_clock and is called aon_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. aon_nic_clk is also used to clock the AON- DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the aon_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure. A second switch divider generates the aon_apb_clk. AON NoC clocks should never be disabled as AON CAR registers are behind AON NOC. Disabling AON NoC clocks can lead to deadlock and system hang.
- The hardware sequencer in AON reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section
Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and the aon_apb_clk.
- APE Clocking
The Audio Processing Engine (APE) provides all the audio needs of the SoC. APE contains an audio DSP (ADSP), an internal RAM, and a AHUB containing hardware accelerators and a DMA engine. Refer to the Audio Processing Engine (APE) chapter for details on APE clocking.
- RCE Clocking
The SoC has a dedicated CPU core for real time and ADAS requirements from the camera. The RCE cluster is an exact reuse of the SCE cluster, port by port, and module by module. Consequently, the clocking is exactly similar to SCE clocking. The primary source is a dedicated NAFLL for SCE with a

- Clock Controller Functional Description
single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE called PLLBPMPCAM. The backup HPLL is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the rce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the RCE NOC is a derived version of the rce_cpu_clock and is called rce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. rce_nic_clk is also used to clock the RCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the rce_aclken signal generated.
- The hardware sequencer in RCE reuses the same hardware sequencer described in the Hardware
- Sequencer section in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the rce_cpu_clk and
rce_nic_clk.
- DCE Clocking
The DCE cluster is an exact reuse of the RCE cluster, port by port, and module by module. Consequently, the clocking is exactly similar to RCE clocking. The primary source is a dedicated
- NAFLL for DCE with a single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE/DCE called PLLBPMPCAM. The
backup HPLL is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the dce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the DCE NOC is a derived version of the dce_cpu_clock and is called dce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. dce_nic_clk is also used to clock the RCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the dce_aclken signal generated.
- AOVC/PM/PMC/SOC_THERM/CVC/HSP/HSM Clocking
- These modules are almost always clocked by the corresponding cluster backbone clock or the
oscillator or 32-kHz clock.
##### 9.1.3.1.3 High-Speed I/O (HSIO) Cluster Clocking
- UPHY Clocking
There are three UPHY instances: 1.
- HSIO UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY capable of supporting various combinations of PCIe,
USB 3.1, UFS, and HSSTP controllers. NVHS UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY supporting a mixture of PCIe controllers.
- GBE UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY supporting a mixture of PCIe and 10G Ethernet
controllers. 2. 3.
- HSIO UPHY
- HSIO UPHY Clocking
The HSIO UPHY can be driven by various combinations of PCIe, XUSB, UFS, and HSSTP controllers mapped onto its 8 lanes. There is a 1:1 mapping of PIPE2UPHY instances to UPHY lanes, so the PCIe controller mappings are actually done at the controller to PIPE2UPHY boundary. For a detailed

- Clock Controller Functional Description
diagram of the controller to HSIO UPHY Lane mapping, refer to the Block Diagram in the HSIO chapter. All of the PLLs use the output of PLLE for usage with PCIe, and XUSB. In addition, PLL3 requires OSC as a reference for UFS/MPHY mode. It is the only PLL requiring OSC as a reference, since only PLL3 can be sourced for L10 and/or L11 in MPHY mode. REFPLLE has been removed as a reference for PLL3, due to the usage of OSC in MPHY mode, when REFPLLE is set to 62.5 MHz for EQOS. PLL1 also has PLL_NVHS as a reference for IST modes where the NVHS UPHY is used in PCIe mode to connect to a dGPU. This UPHY has four I/O PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by either the PLL on its left or the PLL on its right, depending on which controller it is associated with.
- HSIO UPHY PLLs and Lane Usage
- HSIO UPHY Lane Clock Generation
Per-controller clocks must be generated for each of the PCIe, XUSB, MPHY, and HSSTP controllers. This is done in the HSIO Link Macros for each controller. These Link Macros MUX between the relevant UPHY PLL *_txclkref outputs, based on the lane and PLL mapping to create the controller Tx clocks. These Link Macros also divide and gate the clocks, as needed, for generating the controller’s clocks. Per-lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further Tx clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros.
- NVHS UPHY
- NVHS UPHY Clocking
The NVHS UPHY can be driven by a mixture of PCIe controllers mapped onto its eight lanes. This UPHY has two IO PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by either PLL on either end of the PHY, depending on which controller it is associated with.
- There are two outputs of PLLNVHS used, one for each IOPLL in NVHS UPHY. The PLLs are
configured to 100 MHz in functional mode. PLL1 can be configured to 150 MHz for DFT modes. PLL_NVHS cannot generate the ideal 156.25 MHz for GBE mode without using fractional division, which will increase jitter and could reduce link performance. There is also the option to use

- Clock Controller Functional Description
an external oscillator on the PCB, connected to the NVHS UPHY EXT_REFCLKP/N differential reference clock inputs. This is used for PCIe Endpoint Mode Controllers.
- NVHS UPHY PLL Location and Lane Usage
- NVHS UPHY Controller and Lane Clock Generation
- CAR clock macros are needed to generate the various Tx and Rx clocks for the NVHS UPHY and
associated controllers. For Tx clocks, there are per controller link macros for the NVHS UPHY, similar to HSIO UPHY. This selects between the two IO PLL TXCLKREF inputs and includes clock generation specific to the requirements of each controller. This includes a Link Macro for PCIe C5 and PCIe C6 clocks. Per- lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further TX clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros. The Lane clock macros are also used for the per-lane Rx clock generation.
- GBE UPHY
- GBE UPHY Clocking
The GBE UPHY can be driven by a mixture of 10G Ethernet and PCIE controllers mapped onto its eight lanes. This UPHY has three IO PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by the PLL to its left or its right, depending on which controller it is associated with.
- GBE UPHY PLL Location and Lane Usage
- GBE UPHY Controller and Lane Clock Generation
- CAR clock macros are needed to generate the various Tx and Rx clocks for the GBE UPHY and
associated controllers.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
For Tx clocks, there are per controller link macros for the GBE UPHY, similar to HSIO UPHY. This selects between the three IO PLL TXCLKREF inputs and includes clock generation specific to the requirements of each controller. This includes a Link Macro for GBE, PCIe C7, PCIe C8, PCIe C9 and PCIe C10. Per-lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further Tx clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros. The Lane clock macros are also used for the per-lane Rx clock generation.
- PIPE2UPHY Clocking
- The PIPE2UPHY (P2U) modules connect the Synopsys DesignWare PCIe controllers to the NVIDIA
- UPHY. The P2U interfaces the MAC layer of the PCIe controller to the UPHY brick, because
NVIDIA’s UPHY does not follow the PIPE interface. There is one P2U module per lane of UPHY brick.
- PCIe Clocking
There are 11 Synopsys DesignWare Gen1 – Gen4 controllers instantiated in Orin. These controllers are mapped across three different UPHY instances, the HSIO UPHY, NVHS UPHY and GBE UPHY. For each UPHY, a PCIE XBAR connects the associated controllers to the per-lane P2U (PIPE2UPHY) modules.
- PCIe Controller PIPE and CORE Clocks
The PCIe PIPE clock transfers data from the Core to P2U. PIPE clock is equal to the Tx clock in frequency, but is treated asynchronously. The PCIe CORE clock is ratio synchronous to the PIPE clock, with a fixed ratio of ½.
- PCIe Reference Clocks
Each controller requires a PCIe Reference clock output pair, which is driven out of the AP in root port mode. This reference clock should be a nominal 100 MHz and sourced from either PLLE (C0 – C4) or PLLNVHS (C5 or C6) or PLL_GBE (C7 – C10).
- PCIe Controller Miscellaneous Clocking
There are several other clocks that the PCIe controllers require: One apbclk input per controller
- Hardware Clock Control in PCIe L1/L1SS States
The CORE clock must be gated when the link enters into the L1/L1SS low power states. The CORE AUX clock must switch dynamically to OSC clock when the link enters these power states. The request to do this comes from the core.
- Dynamic Rate Change Support for PCIe Controllers
The PCIe link is initialized to Gen1 by software. The link can then change rate between Gen1, Gen2, Gen3, and Gen4 dynamically. CAR must switch the Tx, PIPE, and CORE clocks to the new required

- Clock Controller Functional Description
frequencies in a glitch-free manner. The request and new link speed are provided by the associated P2U. Once CAR switches the frequency, it must provide an ACK back to P2U. If a frequency change request is made for a controller that is able to source two UPHY PLLs, then this would only involve sequencing mux select changes in the Link Macro. This is common in HSIO UPHY configurations where all of the controllers are root ports and the PLLs would be configured such that each controller could select between 10 GHz (for Gen1/Gen2) and 16 GHz (for Gen3/ Gen4) PLL TXCLKREF outputs. If a frequency change request is made for a controller that has only one possible UPHY PLL source, then this would involve changing the UPHY PLL frequency between 10 GHz and 16 GHz. This would be common for PCIe C5 (NVHS UPHY) or HSIO UPHY configurations where endpoint mode controllers are present (this ends up tying PLLs exclusively to different controllers).
- PCIe Clocking
There are 11 Synopsys DesignWare Gen1 – Gen4 controllers instantiated in Orin. These controllers are mapped across three different UPHY instances: HSIO UPHY, NVHS UPHY and GBE UPHY. For each UPHY, a PCIe XBAR connects the associated controllers to the per-lane P2U (PIPE2UPHY) modules.
- XUSB Core Clocking
The XUSB lanes are mapped to specific HSIO lanes. Each of those lanes can use one of two PLLs.
- The XUSB Link Macros have the MUXing to select between PLL sources possible for each
controller. If a lane is in XUSB mode, its HSIO Lane Macro selects that XUSB source from the Link Macro and the Lane Macro provides the appropriate Tx and Rx clocks for the XUSB controller.
- UFS/MPHY Clocking
The UFSHC (Universal Flash Storage Host Controller) adapts MPHY as the physical layer. There are clock gating changes for the uphy_hsio_pll3_mgmt_clk in the brick. This clock should not be gated in hardware based on PLL3 power down indication from CAR. Either MPHY lane can be used for an X1 MPHY (the PLL3 TXREFCLK now goes to both lanes). The UFSHC controller adapts MPHY as the physical layer. The reference clock for the PLL3 for MPHY can be oscillator while the controller can run of the REFPLLE running at 625 MHz. The brick PLL for MPHY (i.e., PLL3) generates the interface clocks and the geared ratios for running the symbol clock, bit clocks are generated using divider switch structure. ALL MPHY Core clocks are generated from REFPLLE and the Tx SYMBOL Clock is generated from either REFPLLE or UPHY BRICK PLL3.
- The Tx and Rx clocks shown in above diagram are forwarded to the UFS controller. Both the
ufshc_cg_sysclk and ufsdev_ref_clk are clock gated. Note: the clock gates controlled by CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_UFS_0 register.
- MPHY and CAR Interaction

- Clock Controller Functional Description
MPHY Tx/Rx clocks can be switched to change source or frequency based on the Mode and Gear of the Operation that MPHY negotiates with the link. These controls come from the MPHY IP directly. A Req and Ack mechanism is used to synchronize the CAR and IP during clock change. MPHY issues a clock change request by toggling the REQ and Waits for CAR to change the ACK. Once CAR completes the clock change it toggles the ACK.
- From MPHY Specification, the time required for clock change from one mode/gear to another
should be less than 10 µs. The CAR state machines guarantees a 5 µs latency.
- HSSTP Clocking
The HSSTP controller takes in the global csite_clk and the Tx clocks for the various lanes (0, 1, 4, and 5) that can be configured as HSSTP. The supported combinations only use up to two lanes at a time (0 and 1 together, otherwise always individual lanes). The clocks are mesochronous, as all four lane clocks are sourced from the same HSSTP Link Clock Macro when HSSTP is selected for that lane.
- MGBE Clocking
The GBE lanes are mapped to lanes 4 – 7 of the GBE UPHY. Each of those lanes only use PLL2 for their Tx clocking. The GBE Link Macros take in the PLL2 TXCLKREF (644.53125 MHz) to generate the gated Tx clocks (divide-by-two). If a lane is in GBE mode, its GBE UPHY Lane Macro will select that GBE clock source from the Link Macro and the Lane Macro provides the appropriate Tx and Rx clocks for the GBE controller. Additionally, the GBE Link Macro will generate the Tx and Rx PCS clocks and the MAC clock from UPHY references, and other required GBE controller clocks. iGPU Clocking The IST clock, ist_clk, is a global test clock for IST mode. It is generated from either clk_m_sys_clk or PLLP, with a maximum frequency of PLLP/2 (204 MHz). iGPU uses an NVLink-based data plane for the iGPU. This HSHUB sub-block in iGPU operates entirely on the iGPU’s SYSCLK domain. There is a shim outside of the iGPU, provided by MSS as part of the MSSNVL_HSH, which has the CDC between the SYSCLK domain and the emchub_clk domain, as well as the voltage domain crossing from VDD_GPU to VDD_SOC. Because of this, iGPU needs to provide clock outputs for CAR to generate the final SYSCLK.
##### 9.1.3.1.4 Low-Speed I/O (LSIO) Clocking
For all LSIO units except CAN, the Clock enable registers from the CAR address space are used for distributed SLCG gating of pclk branches.
- QSPI Clocking
The SoC supports two QSPI controllers. Each controller drives a single x4 QSPI port independently and combined together effectively results in 2x bandwidth, i.e., 200 MB/s total bandwidth.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
Partitioned payloads are flashed in two discrete x4 QSPI flashes or two x4 QSPI flashes on a single die. Each QSPI unit has qspi_2x_pm_clk and qspi_pm_clk as inputs. For hitting the target frequency the PLLC4 clock (muxed and gated) is routed to the QSPI clock switch. Also, HPLLs have been added as a QSPI clocking source to decouple the clock sources for SDMMC and QSPI which shares the same PLLC4.
- SDMMC Clocking
Analog PLLC4 is the source for the SDMMC controllers. SDMMC4 controller is used as an eMMC5.1 device (embedded flash memory). The EMMC bricks are placed close to the SDMMC4 clock switch/ PLLC4 for optimizing the clock insertion delay to the brick. The insertion delay leads to duty cycle issues at lower voltages.
- The PLL output (PDIV version-CLKOUT) can directly be used to clock the eMMC brick. The
glitchless switch from the bypass branch to the PLL derived clock is taken care of by a state machine similar to the EMC clock switch state machine. The software switch sequence is similar to any other clock switch. State machine is only for PLLC4 hardware sequencing for glitchless switch. There is no handshake requirement with EMMC controller for the switch itself. Software override for PLL_BYPASS control is also present. The additional programming required to bring the sdmmc4 clock up is to bring PLLC4 out of IDDQ since the bypass clock does not propagate through the
- PLLC4 in IDDQ mode. SDMMC1 clocks can be sourced from the PLLC4 sources like VCO/2, VCO/3
or VCO/5. The *_legacy_tm_r clock for all the SDMMC controllers are sourced from a common clock switch divider.
- The bypass branch to the PLLC4 is from a special SDMMC switch divider. Selecting 001
(pllc4_out2_lj = VCO/5), 010 (pllc4_out0_lj = VCO), and 101 (pllc4_out1_lj = VCO/3) bypasses the internal divider in the clock switch. Alternatively, divided and gated versions of VCO/5, VCO, VCO/3, PLLP and clk_m can be selected as sources. All clock gates in this switch are controlled by software using the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SDMMC4_0 register.
- The CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SDMMC4_0 register is used to select the clock source
and divider value. Selecting any of these clock sources other than pllc4_out0_lj (010) automatically puts the PLL into BYPASS mode via a hardware FSM. If pllc4_out0_lj is selected, it does not use the bypass path and the CLKOUT output of PLLC4 is driven by the main VCO / PDIV path (the lowest jitter path possible). Alternatively, the PLLC4_BYPASS may be controlled by software (i.e., the hardware FSM may be overridden if CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_PLLC4_MISC1_0.
- PLLC4_ENABLE_SW_OVERRIDE is set to 1. To gate the SDMMC4 clocks, one of the bypass path
clocks (any except pllc4_out0_lj) must be selected, as the only clock gate is in the bypassclk switch-divider.
- Ethernet QOS (EQOS) Clocking
ETHER_QOS is an Ethernet controller that has following clock domains:
- Tx Clock

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Rx Clock
- PTP Clock
- CSR Clock or APB clock (used for APB4 slave interface)
- Application Clock (used for AXI4 system memory interface)
- There are tracking requirements for audio codec clocks based on EQOS sync points. Software
changes fractional NDIV of PLLA. EQOS needs a 125 MHz clock with duty cycle close to 50-50 for meeting interface requirements of GiG Ethernet. This is sourced from refPLLE in the system which can run at 625 MHz. The Rx clock for EQOS is from the interface and the APB interface clock from the system backbone is also used in the unit. eqos_loopback_enable can be configured by IP software by programming the register ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0 (which is in ether_qos register space). The EQOS IP has an internal divider to derive the eqos_gmii_mdc (management data clock).
- UART Clocking
There are seven UART instances in LSIO Cluster and two UART instances in AON Cluster. UART has three clock inputs. UART instances in LSIO Cluster have uart*_r_clk, uart_fst_mipi_cal_r_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk clock as their clock inputs. Similarly, UART instances in AON Cluster have uart*_r_clk, aon_uart_fst_mipi_cal_r_clk and aon_apb_clk.
- I2C Clocking
- There are seven I2C instances in LSIO Cluster, two I2C instances in AON Cluster and two
I2C instances in PSC. I2C has three clock inputs. I2C instances in LSIO Cluster have i2c*_r_clk, i2c_slow_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk clock as its clock inputs. Similarly, I2C instances in AON Cluster have i2c*_r_clk, aon_i2_slow_clk and aon_apb_clk. I2c_slow clock connects to all the I2C instances in LSIO Cluster. Similarly, aon_i2c_slow clock connects to all the I2C instances in AON Cluster.
- TACH Clocking
There are two instance of TACH. It has two clock inputs. They are tach_r_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk.
- SPI Clocking
There are four instances of SPI in the LSIO cluster and one instance of SPI in the AON cluster. SPI has four clock inputs. For, SPI1, SPI3, SPI4, and SPI5 they are wired to spi*_r_clk, spi*_pm_clk, axi2apb_*_pclk and sclk_in. For SPI2 it is spi2_r_clk, spi2_pm_clk, aon_apb_r_pclk and sclk_in. spi*_r_clk and spi*_pm_clk are connected to same clock source.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- PWM Clocking
- There are seven PWM instances in LSIO Cluster and one PWM instance in AON Cluster. PWM has
two clock inputs. PWM instances in LSIO Cluster have pwm*_r_clk, axi2apb_*_pclk clock as its clock inputs. Similarly, PWM instance in AON Cluster has pwm4_r_clk and aon_apb_clk. The operation frequency of PWM is 408 MHz.
- CAN Clocking
The SoC supports connectivity to two instances of Controller Area Network (CAN) in AO Partition. Each CAN instance has three clock inputs: aon_apb_r_clk, can*_core_r_clk and can*_host_r_clk.
##### 9.1.3.1.5 MMPLEX Clocking
- NVENC Clocking
The two NVENC clocks get two individual clocks with identical requirements. The main source is an
- NAFLL instance for each. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided
as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. There are skippers on the NVENC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used.
- OFA Clocking
Optical Flow Accelerator (OFA) is a engine that does optical flow and stereo used for computer vision algorithms for Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS) as well as VR or Gaming. The main clocking source for OFA is a NAFLL dedicated for OFA. There are backup PLL sources for DFT FTM purposes.
- NVDEC Clocking
The two NVDEC clocks get two individual clocks with identical requirements. The main source is an
- NAFLL instance for each. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided
as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. There are skippers on the NVDEC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used.
- VIC Clocking
- The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be
provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation.
- ISP Clocking
- The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be
provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- VI Clocking
The main VI clock, vi_r_clk, is primarily sourced from the VI NAFLL, with the shared backup HPLLs (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) as backup sources for DFT FTM. PLLP is also provided, as well as clk_m_sys_clk. VI clocking has SLVS support and a new fixed-rate clock, vi_const_clk. This is sourced from PLLP, with clk_m_sys_clk also provided for when PLLP is not available. VI also requires nvcsi_clk, which is used by both the NVCSI and SLVS controllers, as well as tsc_ref_clk, which is used for the time stamp counter terminal node and Falcon IP within VI. There are reference clocks used by the camera sensors, ext_periph_clk{1-4}. The skipper (on vi_r_clk) is used to set a high frequency and then derive frequencies for lower perf points by skipping clock pulses rather than changing switch-divider settings. This is redundant when the primary NAFLL source is used, as the NAFLL’s skipper is used in that case.
- NVCSI_CIL Clocking
The NVCSI_CIL module controls the individual lanes of a NVCSI composite brick. Each partition (4- lane) is associated with one SCIL, which includes one CIL block per lane/trio and lane merging functionality.
- NVCSI Clocking
NVCSI reconstructed clock from the interface cannot be used to run the core as the clock would stop once the transfer is complete and the CSI pipeline is deeper than the number of cycles after the transaction is complete (to save power). Need to use another clocking source for NVCSI for processing the camera input pipeline. This clock is also an ISO clock. We have a dedicated HPLL for generating this clock. The target requirement is CPHY 1.1 (3.0 Gbps and DPHY 1.2 (2.5 Gbps), which leads to a maximum frequency of 428.6 MHz for CPHY (both functional and IOBIST modes), maximum functional frequency of 156.25 MHz for DPHY and maximum IOBIST frequency of 312.5 MHz for DPHY.
- NVJPG Clocking
- The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be
provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation.
- TSEC Clocking
There is one instance of TSEC in Orin. The main source is an NAFLL. The secondary sources (used for FTM) are the shared backup HPLLs (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM). For low-frequency use cases, PLLP is also provided as a source. There are skippers on the TSEC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- SE Clocking
The SE block has three main root clocks: se_clk, se_free_clk, and entropy_clk. The SE NAFLL is the primary source for the se_clk/se_free_clk clock switch. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) are also provided for DFT FTM mapping. PLLP is available for low-frequency use-cases, and as the primary clock source for entropy_clk. There is a skipper on se_r_clk and se_fr_clk. This is redundant when the primary NAFLL source is used.
- CV Cluster
The CV cluster consists of one PVA cluster and two DLA instances.
- PVA Clocking
The SoC has one instance of Programmable Vision Accelerator (PVA). The PVA clusters share a NAFLL pair, an ADC, and a HPLL. One of the NAFLLs in the pair of NAFLLs is used to clock the PVA- R5 and the Cortex-R5 subsystem. The other NAFLL in the pair is used to clock the VPS pair present in a PVA. Each VPS clock pair for a PVA (i.e., PVA0_vps0_clk and PVA0_vps1_clk) is sourced from the same switch divider. Each of these VPS clock branches can be individually be controlled by their respective skippers. Each of these clock branches can be individually be gated as well. The Cortex-
- R5 subsystem clock is generated from two different switch dividers. The PVA0_axi_clk has
dedicated skippers as well after the switch dividers.
- DLA Clocking
The SoC has two instances of DLA. The three major clocks are dla*_core_clock, dla*_falcon_clk and dla_host1x_clk. The DLA0_core_clock and DLA1_core clock are sourced from their respective clock dividers and there are dedicated skippers for the two clocks.
- DLA0 has a backup HPLL shared between the DLA0_core_clock and DLA0_falcon_clk. There is an
ADC dedicated for DLA0. Similarly, DLA1 has a backup HPLL shared between the DLA1_core_clock and DLA1_falcon_clk and an ADC dedicated for DLA1. Each of the DLA0_core_clock / DLA0_falcon_clk and DLA1_core_clock / DLA1_falcon_clk can be clock gated individually.
- Display Clocking
The SoC supports two display heads. Each of the display heads can use different resolutions with different pixel clock frequency requirements. Because of this, individual pixel clocks must be generated for each head. For each pixel clock, there is a mux between each of the VPLL instances. In test mode, DFT can use JTAG overrides to use the mux to select any VPLL for any head. All of these PLLs must have fractional NDIV capability in order to hit the exact frequencies required for the panel resolutions.
- SOR Clocks

- Clock Controller Functional Description
The SoC supports up to two SOR bricks that are independently configurable to use HDMI or DP modes, and each is able to use any of the two display heads. These map to one single-link DP Brick. This allows for 2head1or operation. This means that there is one LINK*_PLL_REF_CLK required (for the one link) but two SOR_CLKs. There are two separate pixel rate PLLs (VPLL0 and VPLL1) as well as two DisplayPort reference clock PLLs (SPPLL0 and SPPLL1). The VPLL instances are used to generate the pixel clock for a particular display head, and are used to generate the reference clock to the associated brick in HDMI mode. The muxes for the SOR reference clocks must also have separate dividers, as the ratio of pixel clock to SOR reference clock in HDMI mode can vary by use case and is not always 1:1.
- All these PLLs support spread spectrum for the SOR interfaces. The SOR clocks are treated
asynchronously with respect to their associated head’s pixel clock. SPPLL0 can be configured without SSC and SPPLL1 so that the SOR/Link can use SSC independently from HDA, Display, and Display HUB clocks.
- DSI Clocks
The SoC supports Display Serial Interface (DSI). In addition to the DSI DPHY interface (DSI-D), the DSI CPHY interface (DSI-C) is supported as well. There are three clocks needed for DSI: dsi_io_clk, dsi_core_clk and dsi_pixel_clk. The dsi_io_clk is a maximum of 2.5 GHz. The dsi_core_clk is dsi_io_clk, eight for DSI-D and dsi_io_clk, seven for DSI-C. The pixel clock, dsi_pixel_clk, is the same pixel rate required by rg_clk and sf_clk (in DSI modes). While the DSI-D frequencies can all be generated from one PLL, DSIPLL, the DSI-C dsi_pixel_clk requirements cannot be met with one PLL. Because of this, the SoC provides options for dsi_pixel_clk, rg0_clk and sf0_clk to be sourced from VPLL0 (cascaded with DSIPLL) in functional mode for DSI-C mode and DSIPLL for DSI-D mode. Regardless of DSI mode, dsi_io_clk is always sourced directly from DSIPLL and generates the dsi_core_clk (either divided-by-8 for DSI-D or divided-by-7 for DSI-C).
- High Definition Audio Clocks
The first audio related clock, aza_2xbitclk, is the core clock for the HDA Azalea block. It is also the 2x clock for the audio CODEC. This is a fixed 108 MHz clock. There is also a second clock for the audio CODEC, aza_bitclk. This is a DIV2 of aza_2xbitclk (54 MHz). In DP mode, the SOR brick must derive a ratio of the link clock to the audio sample clock. The SOR logic uses a fixed 270 MHz clock, called maudclk, to do so. MAUD_CLK must track the 108 MHz aza_2xbitclk (which is the actual sample rate). Because of this, maudclk and aza_2xbitclk must both be sourced from the same PLL.
- FSI Cluster
- Also known as FSI_CAR, this cluster represents the Functional Safety Island. The primary
difference for CAR is that the elements inside of this cluster are characterized differently in safety analysis as they have an ASIL-D rating target instead of an ASIL-B rating target. With this

- Clock Controller Functional Description
consideration, almost no external clocks are allowed to come from SOC_CAR to FSI_CAR; the exceptions are data back bone, DFT, and JTAG. The FSI clocking is built in a less generic fashion than many of the other IPs. This limits flexibility, but it provides fewer points of failure from a safety case perspective. The resulting product is both safer and doesn’t require as many extraneous diagnostics for unused modes. For example, fractional and excessively large dividers are not present. Additionally, clock trees are merged as much as possible in order to share diagnostic coverage on required CLK_GEN elements like switches and dividers.
- Top Cluster Clocking
- Fuse Clocking
The source of fuse_clk is osc_div_clk. osc_div_clk is always set to undivided OSC (38.4 MHz). This simplifies the software as the divider value does not need to be accounted for. There is also an ungated version of fuse_clk called fuse_serial_clk.
- PADCTL Clocking
- The PWR_CTL PADCTL instance needs to use car2padctl_rstreq_clken with an SLCG for its
apb_clk. This is a copy of pmc2car_rstreq_clken and is used to gate the clock during reset events, due to that instance’s use of an L1 warm reset. Each pad macro gets its own copy of the global PCLK.
- Backbone Cluster Clocking
- CBB Clocking
- The SoC uses a Hybrid approach with FlexNOC replacing the ARM SNIC-400. The AXIP2P for the
AXI master and slaves is clocked by the corresponding master and slave clocks with an exception for PCIe, CPU, and GPU. TSECA, TSECB, NVDEC, JTAG, and Host1x are no-touch IPs. These AXIP2Ps for these IPs are clocked by axi_cbb_clk and the not the master/slave clocks, with the exception of Host1x, which uses host1x_clk. The clock generated is called the axi_cbb_clk. All other control back bone clocks are generated from the axi_cbb_clk. The axi_cbb_central clk is a skipped version of the axi_cbb_clk which is used for the NOC partition. The axi_cbb_gpu_clk is axi_cbb_clk branch for iGPU. Similarly the axi_cbb_cpu_clk is the axi_cbb_clk branch for the CPU. These clock branches are not gated at the root as the power savings is negligible. The CCPLEX’s AXIP2P is clocked by the axi_cbb_cpu_clk. The iGPU’s P2P is clocked by axi_cbb_clk and the split FIFOs clocked by axi_cbb_gpu_clk. The axi_cbb_gpu_clk and axi_cbb_cpu_clk is asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk. The clocks are tapped off from axi_cbb_clk, but have clock crossing FIFOs implemented so PD can treat them as asynchronous The PCIe controller’s AXIP2P is clocked by the axi_cbb_PCIe_vio_clk and axi_cbb_PCIe_vsoc_clk. There are two versions of the clock branch created for the two sub-chiplets in the IOVDD and

- Clock Controller Functional Description
VDD_SOC rails respectively and are asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk. They are gated at the root to save on clock distribution power. The clocks are tapped off from axi_cbb_clk as shown in the diagram, but have clock crossing FIFOs implemented so PD can treat them as asynchronous. The axi2apb_<n>_clk is a skipped version of the axi_cbb_clk where <n> denotes the bridge number. The CV clients need a branch of this clock called axi2apb_cv_clk. Like CV clients, the PCIe APB clients on the IOVDD rail also needs a branch of this clock which is called axi2apb_PCIe_clk.There are six bridges and one axi2abp_clk branch for each bridge.
- CBB Clock Crossings
The axi_cbb_clk and axi_cbb_central clock is treated asynchronous to each other. All MDMMs use the axi2apb_<n>_clk. The axi2apb_<n>_clk and the axi_cbb_clk is treated as asynchronous to each other. For the AON cluster, there is a AXI Split FIFO which takes care of async voltage and clock domain crossings. The P2PS for the AON Cluster works on the AON NOC Clock domain. The async clock handoff is between the AON NOC clock and the axi_cbb_clk. This means that part of the split FIFO works on aon_NOC_clk (and lies in VDD_RTC rail) and a part of it is clocked by the axi_cbb_clk (and lies in VDD_SOC rail). For the BPMP, SCE, and RCE clusters the clock crossover is similar to AON cluster. The P2PM is in
- BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK domain and the async FIFO takes care of clock domain crossing from
this domain to the AXI_CBB_CLK domain. The CBB slave port for the BPMP/SCE/RCE is APB, and as a result it hangs off an MDMM off an AXI2APB bridge, whichever is closest to the clusters physically. The clock crossing between the axi2apb_<n>_clk and the BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK domain happens in the transport layer of the BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK NOC, after the APB-INIU.
- For CPU and PCIe IPs, the AXIP2Ps works on a version of the axi_cbb_clk and not on the
corresponding IP clock. The SoC uses split FIFOs for async clock and voltage crossings. For rest of the AXI master and slaves the corresponding AXIP2P works on the master/slave clocks. Asynchronous cross is from the master_clk to axi_cbb_clk between the master partitions to grout. Similarly, asynchronous cross is from the axi_cbb_clk to slave_clk between the grout and the slave partition. The CV rail APB clients sit behind an APB split FIFO. One end of the split FIFO is clocked by the axi2apb_<n>_clk and the other end by the axi2apb_cv_clk which is again derived from the same axi2apb_<n>_clk clock. This is treated asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk.
- Data Backbone Clocking
The DBB clock is a divide by version (divide by 2), of the mux output of emcs*_clk. A branch of the same clock is the mchub_clk which is input to MSS HUB only. The dbb clock (called dbb_clk) is input to the DBB client chains. The dbb_clk (and all the derived versions of this dbb_clk) and the mchub_clk are asynchronous to each other. The Memory subsystem where the response/request links originate/terminate should add asynchronous FIFOs to handle dbb_clk to mchub_clk clock crossings. Consequently, the HUB partition receives the dbb_request_clk and dbb_return_clk branches as shown in the diagram

- Clock Controller Functional Description
below. mchub_clk and dbb_clk are same functionally but defined asynchronous to avoid timing closure complications. The dbb_clk is derived from one of the partitions and supplied to all other partitions that need it. The “Clock Macro” has buffer points where these clocks can be defined and treated as asynchronous by physical design. The mchub_clk is created locally for each partition by a divide down of the emchub_clk. These are named as mchub_clk, mchubb_clk and mchubbb_clk. The problem is that we cannot route two ratio synchronous clocks into a partition (EMC based clock and MC based clock). Doing so prevents partition level timing closure in PnR. The solution is to create the MC clock locally in each partition from the EMC based clock making sure that they are all in phase with each other. The DIV2 divider for all the mchub_clk branches is controlled by the same register bit. Since the dbb_clk is distributed to the various DBB clients in the SoC. Each chain branch of the dbb_clk has a request, return branch which are different trimmed branches and a branch for the partition/super client, axicif, mccif logic. These are called out as follows: dbb_clk: clock for various PCs and AXICIFs in client physical partitions. dbb_request_clk: Clock branch for the request path retiming stages. The TSA uses this branch as well and there is no separate TSA specific branch. dbb_response_clk: Clock branch for the response path retiming stages The level shifted versions of the dbb_clk for the AON cluster, CV units and PCIe controllers in the IO rail. All these dbb_clk verions have a request and response branch as well. dbb_clk, dbb_clk_cv, dbb_clk_ao, dbb_clk_PCIe are asynchronous to each other.
- DBB Clock Crossings
- For the AON cluster, the clock crossings between the AON_NOC_CLK and the DBB_CLK domains
happen in the TSA structure. The TSA chain has a split FIFO for async clock and voltage crossings. A similar scheme is used for CV and PCIe IOVDD rail controllers also. For BPMP/RCE/SCE clusters, the clock domain crossing occurs between the BPMP/RCE/SCE_NOC_CLK domains and the DBB_CLK domains at the AXICIF module. All other clients are similar as the clock domain crossings occur at the AXICIF. The AXI interface side of the DBB client works on the master clock.
- HOST Clocking
HOST receives host1x_clk. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below.
- Source
- Clock
- Destination Module
- Name
- Number of
- Instances
- Destination Module Clock Name
host1x_clk
- HOST1X
cpu2host1x_clk
- NVDEC
host1x2nvdec_clk
- NVENC
host1x2nvenc_clk
- NVJPG
host1x2nvjpg_clk, host1x2nvjpg_clk

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Source
- Clock
- Destination Module
- Name
- Number of
- Instances
- Destination Module Clock Name
- TSEC
host1x2tsec_clk, host1x2tsec_clk
- DPAUX
host1x2dpaux_clk, host1x2dpaux_clk
- SOR
host1x2sor_clk, host1x2sor_clk
- NVDISPLAY
nvdisplay_hostclk
- VIC
host1x2vic_clk
- DLA
dla0_host1x_clk, dla1_host1x_clk
- PVA
host1x2pva0_clk
- Control Backbone
axi_cbb_host_clk
- Data Backbone
host1xclk
- Central ACTMON Clocking
- The central ACTMON sits in the BPMP cluster. Refer to the BPMP clocking section above for
details.
- GPCDMA Clocking
The SoC has one GPCDMA instance in Top. It has gpcdma_clk and gpcdma_pclk as its clock inputs. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below.
- Module Name
- Located in Cluster
- Module Clock name
- Connected to Clock
- GPCDMA
- TOP
gpcdma_clk axi_cbb_central_clk gpcdma_pclk axi2apb_2_pclk
- GPIO Clocking
There are five GPIO at TOP and one GPIO in AON cluster. GPIO have two clock inputs. They are gpio_ctl*_clk and gpio_ctl*_pclk. Details about the clock connections can be found in the table below. Out of the five GPIOs at TOP, GPIO_CTRL0 is in IO VDD domain and other four SoC domains.
- Module Name
- Number of Instances
- Located in Cluster
- Module Clock name
- Connected to Clock
- GPIO
- TOP
gpio_ctl*_clk gpio_ctl*_clk gpio_ctl*_pclk axi2apb_*_pclk
- AON GPIO
- AON
gpio_ctl*_clk aon_apb_clk gpio_ctl*_pclk aon_apb_clk

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- LIC Clocking
LIC has two clock inputs. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below.
- Module Name
- Number of Instances
- Located in Cluster
- Module Clock name
- Connected to Clock
- LIC
- TOP
intr_ctlr_pclk lic_pclk / axi2apb_2_pclk sys_sclk axi2apb_2_pclk
- Timers GTE Clocking
There are eight instances of generic timestamping engine (GTE). One instance per BPMP/AON/SCE/ RCE/PVA0-1 cluster and two instances in Top (outside of the clusters). GTE has three clock inputs. The pclk and clk inputs of the GTE are wired to APB clock and refclk input is wired to tsc_ref_clk. APB clock input of GTE in BPMP/AON/SCE/RCE/PVA0 cluster and two instances in Top (outside of the clusters). GTE has three clock inputs. The pclk and clk inputs of GTE are wired to APB clock and refclk input is wired to tsc_ref_clk. .
- Timers RTC Clocking
RTC is a real-time clock in the AO partition that measures elapsed time since the last cold boot. clk_s_sys_clk (32 kHz) is source clock for RTC and aon_apb_clk is configuration clock.
- Timers TKE Clocking
A Time Keeping Element module (TKE) encapsulates a set of NV timers and Watchdog timers. There are seven instances of TKE. TKE is instantiated in TOP and in each of Cortex-R5 clusters (BPMP/AO/SCE/RCE/PVA0/APE).TKE has tsc_ref_clk, clk_m_sys_clk and apb_clk as its clocking inputs. Configuration clock for TKE is APB clock of the partition in which TKE is instanced. So, TKE in BPMP/AON/SCE/RCE/PVA0/TOP cluster is wired to bpmp_nic_clk/aon_apb_r_clk/sce_nic_clk/ rce_nic_clk/dce_nic_clk/pva*_apb_clk/axi2apb_cbb_clk respectively.
- Timers TSC Clocking
TSC generates the tsc_ref_r_clk which is used by other timers including TKE. tsc_ref_r_clk (31.25 MHz) is used as a reference for running timers throughout the chip and is generated by skipping edges from a PLLP (either PLLP/10=40.8MHz, PLLP/12=34MHz) or Oscillator based clock.

- Clock Controller Programming Guidelines
#### 9.1.3.2 Clock Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 9.1.3.2.1 Software Partitioning
The CAR registers are controlled by NVIDIA provided firmware running on BPMP, this is referred to as the BPMP-FW clock services. Therefore these registers are not documented in this TRM, and the relevant documentation should be consulted to find how to control the CAR functions.
- BPMP is the owner of clocking and voltage related hardware components. BPMP firmware
manages the programming of PLLs and AVFS-NAFLLs, clock source selection registers, dividers, and clock gating control. The exception to the above is the programming of the CCPLEX clocking registers (handled by MCE) and some AO clocking registers (e.g., the AON slaves, AON-R5 is still controlled by BPMP). The secure clocks in AO cluster are still controlled by BPMP. Since there is only a per-register page block-level firewall protection available for most of the CAR pages and because BPMP needs access to clock enable and reset registers for power management, BPMP as secure master is the best choice. The specific goal for clocking is to prevent underclocking or overclocking secure state info/logic. The one exception is the AON_SCR_SHARED SCR Group, which provides access both to BPMP and potentially AON-R5.
## 9.2 Interrupt Controllers}(@{Key=9.1.3; Title=Clock Controller; Body=The clocking logic makes use of the following to provide the various clocks in the system, including the frequency of operation, clock quality, spread, and clock gating.
- Sources capable of generating frequencies independently or based on a reference clock –
- External oscillators, Phase-Locked Loops (PLLs), and Noise-Aware Frequency Locked Loops
(NAFLLs). Clock manipulation elements – switches, dividers, gates, skippers, trimmers, shapers, etc. The controls for these elements are present in the clock controller module. These controls may need to be sequenced in an appropriate manner to ensure that there are no glitches or other clock artifacts in the system. Key features include the following: Clock generation for all functional blocks. Register parity for clock configuration registers. LUT RAM parity for certain NAFLL LUTs. Clock Monitoring for certain clocks. Refer to the Safety Manual for details of the safety applications of the last three bullets.
#### 9.1.3.1 Clock Controller Functional Description
##### 9.1.3.1.1 Clock Inputs
- Crystal Oscillator Input
The SoC has a dedicated 38.4 MHz XTAL OSC input. All SoC core PLLs have the option of using a version of the OSC clock, osc_div_clk, as a reference. This has a divider, but the divider is always set to 1, so osc_div_clk is always 38.4 MHz. Some PLLs may also use another PLL output as a clock reference, or an external reference clock input. The OSC clock source most commonly (but not

- Clock Controller Functional Description
exclusively) used by the various clock muxes and switch-dividers is clk_m_sys_clk. This is a divided version of OSC. The reset default of the divider is DIV1, but then boot software sets the divider value to DIV2, so that clk_m_sys_clk is 19.2 MHz. AO modules use ao_clk_m, which is undivided.
**Figure 9.8 OSC Clocks**
Drive strength settings for the OSC pad cannot be changed during operation, as changing those settings causes the output of the OSC pad to glitch. The settings are used as the clock reference for the majority of the PLLs on the chip, therefore changing the drive strength setting must not occur.
- FSI_XTAL Clock Input
The SoC has a dedicated 40 MHz XTAL input for the safety island. The FSI_XTAL clock source is used directly to drive the FSI PLL. Additionally, it sources different units such as FSI CAN and FSI GPIO directly. 32K Clock The 32K clock is a 32,768 Hz clock input, provided by the PMIC. All references to 32K in the context of this clock represent this frequency, and can be interpreted as 32 KiHz, or (32 x 1024) Hz. This clock is used in PMC for various features, including reset generation, as well as by TSC and RTC as a timing reference. It is also available as a very low-speed clock source for various units during SC7, when most, if not all other clock sources have been powered down. In most places, this clock is referred to as clk_s_sys_clk.
**Figure 9.9 32K Clocks**

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Interface Clock Inputs
The SoC has various clock inputs specific to certain interfaces, which are taken as inputs from the platform (often the device at the other end of the interface). They are used to generate some or all of the internal clocks associated with that interface.
- HSIO UPHY Reference Clock Input
The HSIO UPHY has four differential reference clock pair inputs used as reference clocks for UPHY Brick PLLs. These 100 MHz inputs are used for PCIe endpoint mode.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- PEX_REFCLK0P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL0
- PEX_REFCLK1P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL1
- PEX_REFCLK2P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL2
- PEX_REFCLK3P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe endpoint mode, HSIO UPHY PLL3
- NVHS UPHY Reference Clock Input
The NVHS UPHY has two differential reference clock pair input used as a reference clock for the UPHY Brick PLLs, one each for up to two controllers. This input can be used with all supported protocols of the NVHS UPHY. These 100 MHz inputs are used for PCIe endpoint mode.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- NVHS0_REFCLK0_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- NVHS0_REFCLK1_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- GbE UPHY Reference Clock Input
The GbE UPHY has three differential reference clock pair input used as a reference clock inputs for GbE or PCIe interfaces.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- UPHY2__REFCLK0_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- UPHY2__REFCLK1_P/N
100 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode
- UPHY2__REFCLK2_P/N
100 MHz or 156.25 MHz 100 MHz for PCIe endpoint mode, 156.25 MHz if MGBE refernce is platform sourced.
- MIPI CSI Clock Inputs
The CSI Bricks receive one clock input per two data pairs. In DPHY mode, these clocks are used to receive the data and are used to derive the brick-sourced clocks for the NVCSI_CIL. In CPHY mode, the clock is recovered from the data.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- CSI_A_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_B_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_C_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_D_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_E_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_F_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_G_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- CSI_H_CLK_P/N
Camera Sensor mode dependent. CSI Controller Input Clock.
- Reference Clock Outputs
- Generic Reference Output Clocks in Platform
Orin, as the application processor in platforms, has clock outputs that are used as the reference clock for various platform components in the system. The various platform components that typically source a reference clock from the SoC include camera sensors, touch controllers, and audio CODEC chips. For supporting the clock generation for the same, there are four generic clock switches, AUD_MCLK and TOUCH_CLK whose clock outputs are routed to various pads allocated for reference clock out in the system through pinmux.
- Interface Reference Clock Outputs
- UFS Device Reference Clock
UFS devices have strict clock quality requirements. A 19.2 MHz reference clock for the UFS device is generated from the 38.4 MHz OSC reference clock. This is done by selecting the default of clk_m_sys_clk as the clock source and the default divider of 1.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- UFSDEV_REF_CLK
## 19.2 MHz or 38.4 MHz
UFS reference clock.
- PCIe Reference Clock Outputs
The HSIO PCIe controllers have one differential reference clock pair output per controller used as a reference clock for the endpoint associated with that controller. This is a 100 MHz output used for PCIe root mode and is driven out of the SoC by a separate pad and not the HSIO UPHY itself.
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- Reference clock output pad options
- PEX_CLK0P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C0 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick0 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to HSIO UPHY.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Clock Name
- Frequency
- Usage
- Reference clock output pad options
- PEX_CLK1P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C1 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK2P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C2 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK3P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C3 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick1 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to HSIO UPHY.
- PEX_CLK4P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C4 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK5P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C5 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick2 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to NVHS UPHY.
- PEX_CLK6P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C6 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK7P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C7 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick3 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to GBE UPHY.
- PEX_CLK8P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C8 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK9P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C9 root mode reference clock
output.
- Same as above
- PEX_CLK10P/N
100 MHz
- PCIe C10 root mode reference clock
output.
- BOPEXCLK brick4 associated with PCIE
controllers mapped to GBE UPHY.
##### 9.1.3.1.2 Auxiliary Processor Cluster Clocking
- Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters
All the Cortex-R5 subsystems have a hardware sequencer which has the ability to control the clock source and clock switch for the Cortex-R5 and the backbone in the cluster based on the hardware state of the cluster. Refer to the Always-On Cluster (AON) and SPE chapter more details. There is an interface with the Cortex-R5 modules PM block. Jumping to the appropriate frequency and turning off the clock sources that are not in use are possible using this sequencer. This is specifically useful in the AON subsystem when the BPMP (which controls the clocks and resets) is turned OFF.
- The AON Sequencer captures the details of sequencer programming model and different
configurations. If the sequencer is configured to control the NAFLL, then re-enabling NAFLL in BPMP/SCE/RCE clusters when Cortex-R5 is coming out of WFI state could lead to hang. If the NDIV is too low for the given voltage, NAFLL never asserts lock and Cortex-R5 PM hangs. To avoid the hang, use a programmable delay for the NAFLL lock to be asserted using the alternate configuration #5. Software can choose to put NAFLL under software control and not put it in a low power state (IDDQ or Disabled Mode) by using the alternative configuration #3.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- BPMP Cluster Clocking
BPMP clocks are required for the Cortex-R5 and cluster used for Boot and Power Management. There is a primary first level clock for the Cortex-R5 subsystem and there is a ratio synchronous clocks in the system for running the NIC. Other components like the CVC run on this BPMP-NIC clock. The primary clock for BPMP during the boot process is PLLP and the BPMP processor is started at the oscillator clock and transitions over to PLLP as early as possible in the flow. During the regular operation of the BPMP, AVFS-NAFLL is the source that follows the frequency scaling requirements for the processor as close to optimally as possible. The BPMP-fabric clock in the cluster is the ratio version of this clock. There is an independent APB clock that is also generated for this cluster and is sourced from PLLP for the most of the time. There are also first-level clocks generated for various subsystems in the BPMP cluster (ACTMON, SIMON, tsensor, soc_therm). Some of these clocks also become global clocks used in other clusters/chiplets as well. All these clocks are sourced from PLLP/OSC depending on the use-case. There is a switch divider which generates the bpmp_cpu_clk. This is used as a clock source for Cortex-R5. The clock used for the BPMP fabric is a derived version of the bpmp_cpu_clock and is called bpmp_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. bpmp_nic_clk is also used to clock the
- BPMP-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the
bpmp_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure. A second switch divider generates the bpmp_apb_clk. The clocking registers are arranged in a BPMP PAGE with the SUBPAGE for the group of registers for clocking structure called BPMP_CPU_NIC, SUBPAGE BPMP_APB, SUBPAGE for the sequencer related registers called the BPMP_SEQUENCER, subpage for the dedicated NAFLL, subpage for the common HPLL called PLLBPMPCAM, subpage for the ACTMON registers called ACTMON, SUBPAGE for SoC Therm related registers called SOC_THERM, SUBPAGE for the thermal sensors called TSENSOR, and a SUBPAGE for the monitor IP called SIMON.
- The hardware sequencer in BPMP reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section
- Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the bpmp_cpu_clk,
bpmp_nic_clk and the bpmp_apb_clk.
- SCE Cluster Clocking
The SCE provides a set of hardware features to function as the safety processor for functional safety applications. The cluster consists of two Cortex-R5 processor cores with a tightly coupled RAM, support peripherals (e.g. timers, interrupt controller), and routing logic. The SCE does not support operating each Cortex-R5 independently. There is a dedicated NAFLL for SCE which is the primary source. There is also a single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE called PLLBPMPCAM. This is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the sce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the SCE NoC is a derived version of the sce_cpu_clock and is called sce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. Sce_nic_clk is also

- Clock Controller Functional Description
used to clock the SCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the sce_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure.
- The hardware sequencer in SCE reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section
- Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the sce_cpu_clk and
sce_nic_clk.
- AON Cluster Clocking
Similar to the BPMP, the SPE’s Cortex-R5 also has the oscillator clock as the default. The AON subsystem is also capable of turning OFF the oscillator in SC7 use-cases where there is no work pending for the SPE for saving more power. On a wake, the oscillator is turned ON and based on the type of wake, SPE might need to run clocks in the cluster at a higher frequency. The AON PLL can be activated when VDD_SOC is OFF. AON PLL is also used for catering to the SPE and cluster I/Os in the ultra-low power use-cases. Apart from the Cortex-R5 core clock, there are a number of I/O controllers that need to be clocked either from AONPLL or OSC in the AON use-cases. PLLP is also present as a back up source in use-cases where the VDD_SOC power is ON. CAN, I2C, touch controller, PWM, etc., are examples of these I/O controllers. There is a switch divider which generates the aon_cpu_clk. This is used as a clock source for the Cortex-R5. The clock used for the AON NoC is a derived version of the aon_cpu_clock and is called aon_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. aon_nic_clk is also used to clock the AON- DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the aon_aclken signal generated in the below clocking structure. A second switch divider generates the aon_apb_clk. AON NoC clocks should never be disabled as AON CAR registers are behind AON NOC. Disabling AON NoC clocks can lead to deadlock and system hang.
- The hardware sequencer in AON reuses the same hardware sequencer described in Section
Hardware Sequencer in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and the aon_apb_clk.
- APE Clocking
The Audio Processing Engine (APE) provides all the audio needs of the SoC. APE contains an audio DSP (ADSP), an internal RAM, and a AHUB containing hardware accelerators and a DMA engine. Refer to the Audio Processing Engine (APE) chapter for details on APE clocking.
- RCE Clocking
The SoC has a dedicated CPU core for real time and ADAS requirements from the camera. The RCE cluster is an exact reuse of the SCE cluster, port by port, and module by module. Consequently, the clocking is exactly similar to SCE clocking. The primary source is a dedicated NAFLL for SCE with a

- Clock Controller Functional Description
single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE called PLLBPMPCAM. The backup HPLL is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the rce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the RCE NOC is a derived version of the rce_cpu_clock and is called rce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. rce_nic_clk is also used to clock the RCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the rce_aclken signal generated.
- The hardware sequencer in RCE reuses the same hardware sequencer described in the Hardware
- Sequencer section in AON/SCE/RCE/BPMP Clusters and can control the rce_cpu_clk and
rce_nic_clk.
- DCE Clocking
The DCE cluster is an exact reuse of the RCE cluster, port by port, and module by module. Consequently, the clocking is exactly similar to RCE clocking. The primary source is a dedicated
- NAFLL for DCE with a single backup HPLL for BPMP/SCE/RCE/DCE called PLLBPMPCAM. The
backup HPLL is only used for DFT FTM. There is a single clock switch divider which generates the dce_cpu_clock. This is used as a clock source for both the Cortex-R5s. The clock used for the DCE NOC is a derived version of the dce_cpu_clock and is called dce_nic_clk. This is derived based on pulse skippers. dce_nic_clk is also used to clock the RCE-DMA module. Cortex-R5 derives the clock used for AMBA system internally using the dce_aclken signal generated.
- AOVC/PM/PMC/SOC_THERM/CVC/HSP/HSM Clocking
- These modules are almost always clocked by the corresponding cluster backbone clock or the
oscillator or 32-kHz clock.
##### 9.1.3.1.3 High-Speed I/O (HSIO) Cluster Clocking
- UPHY Clocking
There are three UPHY instances: 1.
- HSIO UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY capable of supporting various combinations of PCIe,
USB 3.1, UFS, and HSSTP controllers. NVHS UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY supporting a mixture of PCIe controllers.
- GBE UPHY, which is an 8-lane UPHY supporting a mixture of PCIe and 10G Ethernet
controllers. 2. 3.
- HSIO UPHY
- HSIO UPHY Clocking
The HSIO UPHY can be driven by various combinations of PCIe, XUSB, UFS, and HSSTP controllers mapped onto its 8 lanes. There is a 1:1 mapping of PIPE2UPHY instances to UPHY lanes, so the PCIe controller mappings are actually done at the controller to PIPE2UPHY boundary. For a detailed

- Clock Controller Functional Description
diagram of the controller to HSIO UPHY Lane mapping, refer to the Block Diagram in the HSIO chapter. All of the PLLs use the output of PLLE for usage with PCIe, and XUSB. In addition, PLL3 requires OSC as a reference for UFS/MPHY mode. It is the only PLL requiring OSC as a reference, since only PLL3 can be sourced for L10 and/or L11 in MPHY mode. REFPLLE has been removed as a reference for PLL3, due to the usage of OSC in MPHY mode, when REFPLLE is set to 62.5 MHz for EQOS. PLL1 also has PLL_NVHS as a reference for IST modes where the NVHS UPHY is used in PCIe mode to connect to a dGPU. This UPHY has four I/O PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by either the PLL on its left or the PLL on its right, depending on which controller it is associated with.
- HSIO UPHY PLLs and Lane Usage
- HSIO UPHY Lane Clock Generation
Per-controller clocks must be generated for each of the PCIe, XUSB, MPHY, and HSSTP controllers. This is done in the HSIO Link Macros for each controller. These Link Macros MUX between the relevant UPHY PLL *_txclkref outputs, based on the lane and PLL mapping to create the controller Tx clocks. These Link Macros also divide and gate the clocks, as needed, for generating the controller’s clocks. Per-lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further Tx clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros.
- NVHS UPHY
- NVHS UPHY Clocking
The NVHS UPHY can be driven by a mixture of PCIe controllers mapped onto its eight lanes. This UPHY has two IO PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by either PLL on either end of the PHY, depending on which controller it is associated with.
- There are two outputs of PLLNVHS used, one for each IOPLL in NVHS UPHY. The PLLs are
configured to 100 MHz in functional mode. PLL1 can be configured to 150 MHz for DFT modes. PLL_NVHS cannot generate the ideal 156.25 MHz for GBE mode without using fractional division, which will increase jitter and could reduce link performance. There is also the option to use

- Clock Controller Functional Description
an external oscillator on the PCB, connected to the NVHS UPHY EXT_REFCLKP/N differential reference clock inputs. This is used for PCIe Endpoint Mode Controllers.
- NVHS UPHY PLL Location and Lane Usage
- NVHS UPHY Controller and Lane Clock Generation
- CAR clock macros are needed to generate the various Tx and Rx clocks for the NVHS UPHY and
associated controllers. For Tx clocks, there are per controller link macros for the NVHS UPHY, similar to HSIO UPHY. This selects between the two IO PLL TXCLKREF inputs and includes clock generation specific to the requirements of each controller. This includes a Link Macro for PCIe C5 and PCIe C6 clocks. Per- lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further TX clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros. The Lane clock macros are also used for the per-lane Rx clock generation.
- GBE UPHY
- GBE UPHY Clocking
The GBE UPHY can be driven by a mixture of 10G Ethernet and PCIE controllers mapped onto its eight lanes. This UPHY has three IO PLL instances within the brick to support various controller frequencies. Each lane can be sourced by the PLL to its left or its right, depending on which controller it is associated with.
- GBE UPHY PLL Location and Lane Usage
- GBE UPHY Controller and Lane Clock Generation
- CAR clock macros are needed to generate the various Tx and Rx clocks for the GBE UPHY and
associated controllers.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
For Tx clocks, there are per controller link macros for the GBE UPHY, similar to HSIO UPHY. This selects between the three IO PLL TXCLKREF inputs and includes clock generation specific to the requirements of each controller. This includes a Link Macro for GBE, PCIe C7, PCIe C8, PCIe C9 and PCIe C10. Per-lane clocks must be generated for each lane of the UPHY brick. This is done with MUXing in the Lane Macros. No further Tx clock gating is required, as the controller-specific gating is done in the Link Macros. The Lane clock macros are also used for the per-lane Rx clock generation.
- PIPE2UPHY Clocking
- The PIPE2UPHY (P2U) modules connect the Synopsys DesignWare PCIe controllers to the NVIDIA
- UPHY. The P2U interfaces the MAC layer of the PCIe controller to the UPHY brick, because
NVIDIA’s UPHY does not follow the PIPE interface. There is one P2U module per lane of UPHY brick.
- PCIe Clocking
There are 11 Synopsys DesignWare Gen1 – Gen4 controllers instantiated in Orin. These controllers are mapped across three different UPHY instances, the HSIO UPHY, NVHS UPHY and GBE UPHY. For each UPHY, a PCIE XBAR connects the associated controllers to the per-lane P2U (PIPE2UPHY) modules.
- PCIe Controller PIPE and CORE Clocks
The PCIe PIPE clock transfers data from the Core to P2U. PIPE clock is equal to the Tx clock in frequency, but is treated asynchronously. The PCIe CORE clock is ratio synchronous to the PIPE clock, with a fixed ratio of ½.
- PCIe Reference Clocks
Each controller requires a PCIe Reference clock output pair, which is driven out of the AP in root port mode. This reference clock should be a nominal 100 MHz and sourced from either PLLE (C0 – C4) or PLLNVHS (C5 or C6) or PLL_GBE (C7 – C10).
- PCIe Controller Miscellaneous Clocking
There are several other clocks that the PCIe controllers require: One apbclk input per controller
- Hardware Clock Control in PCIe L1/L1SS States
The CORE clock must be gated when the link enters into the L1/L1SS low power states. The CORE AUX clock must switch dynamically to OSC clock when the link enters these power states. The request to do this comes from the core.
- Dynamic Rate Change Support for PCIe Controllers
The PCIe link is initialized to Gen1 by software. The link can then change rate between Gen1, Gen2, Gen3, and Gen4 dynamically. CAR must switch the Tx, PIPE, and CORE clocks to the new required

- Clock Controller Functional Description
frequencies in a glitch-free manner. The request and new link speed are provided by the associated P2U. Once CAR switches the frequency, it must provide an ACK back to P2U. If a frequency change request is made for a controller that is able to source two UPHY PLLs, then this would only involve sequencing mux select changes in the Link Macro. This is common in HSIO UPHY configurations where all of the controllers are root ports and the PLLs would be configured such that each controller could select between 10 GHz (for Gen1/Gen2) and 16 GHz (for Gen3/ Gen4) PLL TXCLKREF outputs. If a frequency change request is made for a controller that has only one possible UPHY PLL source, then this would involve changing the UPHY PLL frequency between 10 GHz and 16 GHz. This would be common for PCIe C5 (NVHS UPHY) or HSIO UPHY configurations where endpoint mode controllers are present (this ends up tying PLLs exclusively to different controllers).
- PCIe Clocking
There are 11 Synopsys DesignWare Gen1 – Gen4 controllers instantiated in Orin. These controllers are mapped across three different UPHY instances: HSIO UPHY, NVHS UPHY and GBE UPHY. For each UPHY, a PCIe XBAR connects the associated controllers to the per-lane P2U (PIPE2UPHY) modules.
- XUSB Core Clocking
The XUSB lanes are mapped to specific HSIO lanes. Each of those lanes can use one of two PLLs.
- The XUSB Link Macros have the MUXing to select between PLL sources possible for each
controller. If a lane is in XUSB mode, its HSIO Lane Macro selects that XUSB source from the Link Macro and the Lane Macro provides the appropriate Tx and Rx clocks for the XUSB controller.
- UFS/MPHY Clocking
The UFSHC (Universal Flash Storage Host Controller) adapts MPHY as the physical layer. There are clock gating changes for the uphy_hsio_pll3_mgmt_clk in the brick. This clock should not be gated in hardware based on PLL3 power down indication from CAR. Either MPHY lane can be used for an X1 MPHY (the PLL3 TXREFCLK now goes to both lanes). The UFSHC controller adapts MPHY as the physical layer. The reference clock for the PLL3 for MPHY can be oscillator while the controller can run of the REFPLLE running at 625 MHz. The brick PLL for MPHY (i.e., PLL3) generates the interface clocks and the geared ratios for running the symbol clock, bit clocks are generated using divider switch structure. ALL MPHY Core clocks are generated from REFPLLE and the Tx SYMBOL Clock is generated from either REFPLLE or UPHY BRICK PLL3.
- The Tx and Rx clocks shown in above diagram are forwarded to the UFS controller. Both the
ufshc_cg_sysclk and ufsdev_ref_clk are clock gated. Note: the clock gates controlled by CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_UFS_0 register.
- MPHY and CAR Interaction

- Clock Controller Functional Description
MPHY Tx/Rx clocks can be switched to change source or frequency based on the Mode and Gear of the Operation that MPHY negotiates with the link. These controls come from the MPHY IP directly. A Req and Ack mechanism is used to synchronize the CAR and IP during clock change. MPHY issues a clock change request by toggling the REQ and Waits for CAR to change the ACK. Once CAR completes the clock change it toggles the ACK.
- From MPHY Specification, the time required for clock change from one mode/gear to another
should be less than 10 µs. The CAR state machines guarantees a 5 µs latency.
- HSSTP Clocking
The HSSTP controller takes in the global csite_clk and the Tx clocks for the various lanes (0, 1, 4, and 5) that can be configured as HSSTP. The supported combinations only use up to two lanes at a time (0 and 1 together, otherwise always individual lanes). The clocks are mesochronous, as all four lane clocks are sourced from the same HSSTP Link Clock Macro when HSSTP is selected for that lane.
- MGBE Clocking
The GBE lanes are mapped to lanes 4 – 7 of the GBE UPHY. Each of those lanes only use PLL2 for their Tx clocking. The GBE Link Macros take in the PLL2 TXCLKREF (644.53125 MHz) to generate the gated Tx clocks (divide-by-two). If a lane is in GBE mode, its GBE UPHY Lane Macro will select that GBE clock source from the Link Macro and the Lane Macro provides the appropriate Tx and Rx clocks for the GBE controller. Additionally, the GBE Link Macro will generate the Tx and Rx PCS clocks and the MAC clock from UPHY references, and other required GBE controller clocks. iGPU Clocking The IST clock, ist_clk, is a global test clock for IST mode. It is generated from either clk_m_sys_clk or PLLP, with a maximum frequency of PLLP/2 (204 MHz). iGPU uses an NVLink-based data plane for the iGPU. This HSHUB sub-block in iGPU operates entirely on the iGPU’s SYSCLK domain. There is a shim outside of the iGPU, provided by MSS as part of the MSSNVL_HSH, which has the CDC between the SYSCLK domain and the emchub_clk domain, as well as the voltage domain crossing from VDD_GPU to VDD_SOC. Because of this, iGPU needs to provide clock outputs for CAR to generate the final SYSCLK.
##### 9.1.3.1.4 Low-Speed I/O (LSIO) Clocking
For all LSIO units except CAN, the Clock enable registers from the CAR address space are used for distributed SLCG gating of pclk branches.
- QSPI Clocking
The SoC supports two QSPI controllers. Each controller drives a single x4 QSPI port independently and combined together effectively results in 2x bandwidth, i.e., 200 MB/s total bandwidth.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
Partitioned payloads are flashed in two discrete x4 QSPI flashes or two x4 QSPI flashes on a single die. Each QSPI unit has qspi_2x_pm_clk and qspi_pm_clk as inputs. For hitting the target frequency the PLLC4 clock (muxed and gated) is routed to the QSPI clock switch. Also, HPLLs have been added as a QSPI clocking source to decouple the clock sources for SDMMC and QSPI which shares the same PLLC4.
- SDMMC Clocking
Analog PLLC4 is the source for the SDMMC controllers. SDMMC4 controller is used as an eMMC5.1 device (embedded flash memory). The EMMC bricks are placed close to the SDMMC4 clock switch/ PLLC4 for optimizing the clock insertion delay to the brick. The insertion delay leads to duty cycle issues at lower voltages.
- The PLL output (PDIV version-CLKOUT) can directly be used to clock the eMMC brick. The
glitchless switch from the bypass branch to the PLL derived clock is taken care of by a state machine similar to the EMC clock switch state machine. The software switch sequence is similar to any other clock switch. State machine is only for PLLC4 hardware sequencing for glitchless switch. There is no handshake requirement with EMMC controller for the switch itself. Software override for PLL_BYPASS control is also present. The additional programming required to bring the sdmmc4 clock up is to bring PLLC4 out of IDDQ since the bypass clock does not propagate through the
- PLLC4 in IDDQ mode. SDMMC1 clocks can be sourced from the PLLC4 sources like VCO/2, VCO/3
or VCO/5. The *_legacy_tm_r clock for all the SDMMC controllers are sourced from a common clock switch divider.
- The bypass branch to the PLLC4 is from a special SDMMC switch divider. Selecting 001
(pllc4_out2_lj = VCO/5), 010 (pllc4_out0_lj = VCO), and 101 (pllc4_out1_lj = VCO/3) bypasses the internal divider in the clock switch. Alternatively, divided and gated versions of VCO/5, VCO, VCO/3, PLLP and clk_m can be selected as sources. All clock gates in this switch are controlled by software using the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_SDMMC4_0 register.
- The CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_SDMMC4_0 register is used to select the clock source
and divider value. Selecting any of these clock sources other than pllc4_out0_lj (010) automatically puts the PLL into BYPASS mode via a hardware FSM. If pllc4_out0_lj is selected, it does not use the bypass path and the CLKOUT output of PLLC4 is driven by the main VCO / PDIV path (the lowest jitter path possible). Alternatively, the PLLC4_BYPASS may be controlled by software (i.e., the hardware FSM may be overridden if CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_PLLC4_MISC1_0.
- PLLC4_ENABLE_SW_OVERRIDE is set to 1. To gate the SDMMC4 clocks, one of the bypass path
clocks (any except pllc4_out0_lj) must be selected, as the only clock gate is in the bypassclk switch-divider.
- Ethernet QOS (EQOS) Clocking
ETHER_QOS is an Ethernet controller that has following clock domains:
- Tx Clock

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Rx Clock
- PTP Clock
- CSR Clock or APB clock (used for APB4 slave interface)
- Application Clock (used for AXI4 system memory interface)
- There are tracking requirements for audio codec clocks based on EQOS sync points. Software
changes fractional NDIV of PLLA. EQOS needs a 125 MHz clock with duty cycle close to 50-50 for meeting interface requirements of GiG Ethernet. This is sourced from refPLLE in the system which can run at 625 MHz. The Rx clock for EQOS is from the interface and the APB interface clock from the system backbone is also used in the unit. eqos_loopback_enable can be configured by IP software by programming the register ETHER_QOS_CLOCK_CTRL_0 (which is in ether_qos register space). The EQOS IP has an internal divider to derive the eqos_gmii_mdc (management data clock).
- UART Clocking
There are seven UART instances in LSIO Cluster and two UART instances in AON Cluster. UART has three clock inputs. UART instances in LSIO Cluster have uart*_r_clk, uart_fst_mipi_cal_r_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk clock as their clock inputs. Similarly, UART instances in AON Cluster have uart*_r_clk, aon_uart_fst_mipi_cal_r_clk and aon_apb_clk.
- I2C Clocking
- There are seven I2C instances in LSIO Cluster, two I2C instances in AON Cluster and two
I2C instances in PSC. I2C has three clock inputs. I2C instances in LSIO Cluster have i2c*_r_clk, i2c_slow_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk clock as its clock inputs. Similarly, I2C instances in AON Cluster have i2c*_r_clk, aon_i2_slow_clk and aon_apb_clk. I2c_slow clock connects to all the I2C instances in LSIO Cluster. Similarly, aon_i2c_slow clock connects to all the I2C instances in AON Cluster.
- TACH Clocking
There are two instance of TACH. It has two clock inputs. They are tach_r_clk and axi2apb_*_pclk.
- SPI Clocking
There are four instances of SPI in the LSIO cluster and one instance of SPI in the AON cluster. SPI has four clock inputs. For, SPI1, SPI3, SPI4, and SPI5 they are wired to spi*_r_clk, spi*_pm_clk, axi2apb_*_pclk and sclk_in. For SPI2 it is spi2_r_clk, spi2_pm_clk, aon_apb_r_pclk and sclk_in. spi*_r_clk and spi*_pm_clk are connected to same clock source.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- PWM Clocking
- There are seven PWM instances in LSIO Cluster and one PWM instance in AON Cluster. PWM has
two clock inputs. PWM instances in LSIO Cluster have pwm*_r_clk, axi2apb_*_pclk clock as its clock inputs. Similarly, PWM instance in AON Cluster has pwm4_r_clk and aon_apb_clk. The operation frequency of PWM is 408 MHz.
- CAN Clocking
The SoC supports connectivity to two instances of Controller Area Network (CAN) in AO Partition. Each CAN instance has three clock inputs: aon_apb_r_clk, can*_core_r_clk and can*_host_r_clk.
##### 9.1.3.1.5 MMPLEX Clocking
- NVENC Clocking
The two NVENC clocks get two individual clocks with identical requirements. The main source is an
- NAFLL instance for each. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided
as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. There are skippers on the NVENC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used.
- OFA Clocking
Optical Flow Accelerator (OFA) is a engine that does optical flow and stereo used for computer vision algorithms for Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS) as well as VR or Gaming. The main clocking source for OFA is a NAFLL dedicated for OFA. There are backup PLL sources for DFT FTM purposes.
- NVDEC Clocking
The two NVDEC clocks get two individual clocks with identical requirements. The main source is an
- NAFLL instance for each. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be provided
as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation. There are skippers on the NVDEC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used.
- VIC Clocking
- The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be
provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation.
- ISP Clocking
- The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be
provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- VI Clocking
The main VI clock, vi_r_clk, is primarily sourced from the VI NAFLL, with the shared backup HPLLs (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) as backup sources for DFT FTM. PLLP is also provided, as well as clk_m_sys_clk. VI clocking has SLVS support and a new fixed-rate clock, vi_const_clk. This is sourced from PLLP, with clk_m_sys_clk also provided for when PLLP is not available. VI also requires nvcsi_clk, which is used by both the NVCSI and SLVS controllers, as well as tsc_ref_clk, which is used for the time stamp counter terminal node and Falcon IP within VI. There are reference clocks used by the camera sensors, ext_periph_clk{1-4}. The skipper (on vi_r_clk) is used to set a high frequency and then derive frequencies for lower perf points by skipping clock pulses rather than changing switch-divider settings. This is redundant when the primary NAFLL source is used, as the NAFLL’s skipper is used in that case.
- NVCSI_CIL Clocking
The NVCSI_CIL module controls the individual lanes of a NVCSI composite brick. Each partition (4- lane) is associated with one SCIL, which includes one CIL block per lane/trio and lane merging functionality.
- NVCSI Clocking
NVCSI reconstructed clock from the interface cannot be used to run the core as the clock would stop once the transfer is complete and the CSI pipeline is deeper than the number of cycles after the transaction is complete (to save power). Need to use another clocking source for NVCSI for processing the camera input pipeline. This clock is also an ISO clock. We have a dedicated HPLL for generating this clock. The target requirement is CPHY 1.1 (3.0 Gbps and DPHY 1.2 (2.5 Gbps), which leads to a maximum frequency of 428.6 MHz for CPHY (both functional and IOBIST modes), maximum functional frequency of 156.25 MHz for DPHY and maximum IOBIST frequency of 312.5 MHz for DPHY.
- NVJPG Clocking
- The main source is an NAFLL. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) must be
provided as sources for DFT FTM mapping, and PLLP is an option for low-frequency operation.
- TSEC Clocking
There is one instance of TSEC in Orin. The main source is an NAFLL. The secondary sources (used for FTM) are the shared backup HPLLs (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM). For low-frequency use cases, PLLP is also provided as a source. There are skippers on the TSEC clocks. These are redundant when the primary NAFLL sources are used.

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- SE Clocking
The SE block has three main root clocks: se_clk, se_free_clk, and entropy_clk. The SE NAFLL is the primary source for the se_clk/se_free_clk clock switch. The shared HPLL instances (PLLC* and PLLBPMPCAM) are also provided for DFT FTM mapping. PLLP is available for low-frequency use-cases, and as the primary clock source for entropy_clk. There is a skipper on se_r_clk and se_fr_clk. This is redundant when the primary NAFLL source is used.
- CV Cluster
The CV cluster consists of one PVA cluster and two DLA instances.
- PVA Clocking
The SoC has one instance of Programmable Vision Accelerator (PVA). The PVA clusters share a NAFLL pair, an ADC, and a HPLL. One of the NAFLLs in the pair of NAFLLs is used to clock the PVA- R5 and the Cortex-R5 subsystem. The other NAFLL in the pair is used to clock the VPS pair present in a PVA. Each VPS clock pair for a PVA (i.e., PVA0_vps0_clk and PVA0_vps1_clk) is sourced from the same switch divider. Each of these VPS clock branches can be individually be controlled by their respective skippers. Each of these clock branches can be individually be gated as well. The Cortex-
- R5 subsystem clock is generated from two different switch dividers. The PVA0_axi_clk has
dedicated skippers as well after the switch dividers.
- DLA Clocking
The SoC has two instances of DLA. The three major clocks are dla*_core_clock, dla*_falcon_clk and dla_host1x_clk. The DLA0_core_clock and DLA1_core clock are sourced from their respective clock dividers and there are dedicated skippers for the two clocks.
- DLA0 has a backup HPLL shared between the DLA0_core_clock and DLA0_falcon_clk. There is an
ADC dedicated for DLA0. Similarly, DLA1 has a backup HPLL shared between the DLA1_core_clock and DLA1_falcon_clk and an ADC dedicated for DLA1. Each of the DLA0_core_clock / DLA0_falcon_clk and DLA1_core_clock / DLA1_falcon_clk can be clock gated individually.
- Display Clocking
The SoC supports two display heads. Each of the display heads can use different resolutions with different pixel clock frequency requirements. Because of this, individual pixel clocks must be generated for each head. For each pixel clock, there is a mux between each of the VPLL instances. In test mode, DFT can use JTAG overrides to use the mux to select any VPLL for any head. All of these PLLs must have fractional NDIV capability in order to hit the exact frequencies required for the panel resolutions.
- SOR Clocks

- Clock Controller Functional Description
The SoC supports up to two SOR bricks that are independently configurable to use HDMI or DP modes, and each is able to use any of the two display heads. These map to one single-link DP Brick. This allows for 2head1or operation. This means that there is one LINK*_PLL_REF_CLK required (for the one link) but two SOR_CLKs. There are two separate pixel rate PLLs (VPLL0 and VPLL1) as well as two DisplayPort reference clock PLLs (SPPLL0 and SPPLL1). The VPLL instances are used to generate the pixel clock for a particular display head, and are used to generate the reference clock to the associated brick in HDMI mode. The muxes for the SOR reference clocks must also have separate dividers, as the ratio of pixel clock to SOR reference clock in HDMI mode can vary by use case and is not always 1:1.
- All these PLLs support spread spectrum for the SOR interfaces. The SOR clocks are treated
asynchronously with respect to their associated head’s pixel clock. SPPLL0 can be configured without SSC and SPPLL1 so that the SOR/Link can use SSC independently from HDA, Display, and Display HUB clocks.
- DSI Clocks
The SoC supports Display Serial Interface (DSI). In addition to the DSI DPHY interface (DSI-D), the DSI CPHY interface (DSI-C) is supported as well. There are three clocks needed for DSI: dsi_io_clk, dsi_core_clk and dsi_pixel_clk. The dsi_io_clk is a maximum of 2.5 GHz. The dsi_core_clk is dsi_io_clk, eight for DSI-D and dsi_io_clk, seven for DSI-C. The pixel clock, dsi_pixel_clk, is the same pixel rate required by rg_clk and sf_clk (in DSI modes). While the DSI-D frequencies can all be generated from one PLL, DSIPLL, the DSI-C dsi_pixel_clk requirements cannot be met with one PLL. Because of this, the SoC provides options for dsi_pixel_clk, rg0_clk and sf0_clk to be sourced from VPLL0 (cascaded with DSIPLL) in functional mode for DSI-C mode and DSIPLL for DSI-D mode. Regardless of DSI mode, dsi_io_clk is always sourced directly from DSIPLL and generates the dsi_core_clk (either divided-by-8 for DSI-D or divided-by-7 for DSI-C).
- High Definition Audio Clocks
The first audio related clock, aza_2xbitclk, is the core clock for the HDA Azalea block. It is also the 2x clock for the audio CODEC. This is a fixed 108 MHz clock. There is also a second clock for the audio CODEC, aza_bitclk. This is a DIV2 of aza_2xbitclk (54 MHz). In DP mode, the SOR brick must derive a ratio of the link clock to the audio sample clock. The SOR logic uses a fixed 270 MHz clock, called maudclk, to do so. MAUD_CLK must track the 108 MHz aza_2xbitclk (which is the actual sample rate). Because of this, maudclk and aza_2xbitclk must both be sourced from the same PLL.
- FSI Cluster
- Also known as FSI_CAR, this cluster represents the Functional Safety Island. The primary
difference for CAR is that the elements inside of this cluster are characterized differently in safety analysis as they have an ASIL-D rating target instead of an ASIL-B rating target. With this

- Clock Controller Functional Description
consideration, almost no external clocks are allowed to come from SOC_CAR to FSI_CAR; the exceptions are data back bone, DFT, and JTAG. The FSI clocking is built in a less generic fashion than many of the other IPs. This limits flexibility, but it provides fewer points of failure from a safety case perspective. The resulting product is both safer and doesn’t require as many extraneous diagnostics for unused modes. For example, fractional and excessively large dividers are not present. Additionally, clock trees are merged as much as possible in order to share diagnostic coverage on required CLK_GEN elements like switches and dividers.
- Top Cluster Clocking
- Fuse Clocking
The source of fuse_clk is osc_div_clk. osc_div_clk is always set to undivided OSC (38.4 MHz). This simplifies the software as the divider value does not need to be accounted for. There is also an ungated version of fuse_clk called fuse_serial_clk.
- PADCTL Clocking
- The PWR_CTL PADCTL instance needs to use car2padctl_rstreq_clken with an SLCG for its
apb_clk. This is a copy of pmc2car_rstreq_clken and is used to gate the clock during reset events, due to that instance’s use of an L1 warm reset. Each pad macro gets its own copy of the global PCLK.
- Backbone Cluster Clocking
- CBB Clocking
- The SoC uses a Hybrid approach with FlexNOC replacing the ARM SNIC-400. The AXIP2P for the
AXI master and slaves is clocked by the corresponding master and slave clocks with an exception for PCIe, CPU, and GPU. TSECA, TSECB, NVDEC, JTAG, and Host1x are no-touch IPs. These AXIP2Ps for these IPs are clocked by axi_cbb_clk and the not the master/slave clocks, with the exception of Host1x, which uses host1x_clk. The clock generated is called the axi_cbb_clk. All other control back bone clocks are generated from the axi_cbb_clk. The axi_cbb_central clk is a skipped version of the axi_cbb_clk which is used for the NOC partition. The axi_cbb_gpu_clk is axi_cbb_clk branch for iGPU. Similarly the axi_cbb_cpu_clk is the axi_cbb_clk branch for the CPU. These clock branches are not gated at the root as the power savings is negligible. The CCPLEX’s AXIP2P is clocked by the axi_cbb_cpu_clk. The iGPU’s P2P is clocked by axi_cbb_clk and the split FIFOs clocked by axi_cbb_gpu_clk. The axi_cbb_gpu_clk and axi_cbb_cpu_clk is asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk. The clocks are tapped off from axi_cbb_clk, but have clock crossing FIFOs implemented so PD can treat them as asynchronous The PCIe controller’s AXIP2P is clocked by the axi_cbb_PCIe_vio_clk and axi_cbb_PCIe_vsoc_clk. There are two versions of the clock branch created for the two sub-chiplets in the IOVDD and

- Clock Controller Functional Description
VDD_SOC rails respectively and are asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk. They are gated at the root to save on clock distribution power. The clocks are tapped off from axi_cbb_clk as shown in the diagram, but have clock crossing FIFOs implemented so PD can treat them as asynchronous. The axi2apb_<n>_clk is a skipped version of the axi_cbb_clk where <n> denotes the bridge number. The CV clients need a branch of this clock called axi2apb_cv_clk. Like CV clients, the PCIe APB clients on the IOVDD rail also needs a branch of this clock which is called axi2apb_PCIe_clk.There are six bridges and one axi2abp_clk branch for each bridge.
- CBB Clock Crossings
The axi_cbb_clk and axi_cbb_central clock is treated asynchronous to each other. All MDMMs use the axi2apb_<n>_clk. The axi2apb_<n>_clk and the axi_cbb_clk is treated as asynchronous to each other. For the AON cluster, there is a AXI Split FIFO which takes care of async voltage and clock domain crossings. The P2PS for the AON Cluster works on the AON NOC Clock domain. The async clock handoff is between the AON NOC clock and the axi_cbb_clk. This means that part of the split FIFO works on aon_NOC_clk (and lies in VDD_RTC rail) and a part of it is clocked by the axi_cbb_clk (and lies in VDD_SOC rail). For the BPMP, SCE, and RCE clusters the clock crossover is similar to AON cluster. The P2PM is in
- BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK domain and the async FIFO takes care of clock domain crossing from
this domain to the AXI_CBB_CLK domain. The CBB slave port for the BPMP/SCE/RCE is APB, and as a result it hangs off an MDMM off an AXI2APB bridge, whichever is closest to the clusters physically. The clock crossing between the axi2apb_<n>_clk and the BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK domain happens in the transport layer of the BPMP/SCE/RCE_NOC_CLK NOC, after the APB-INIU.
- For CPU and PCIe IPs, the AXIP2Ps works on a version of the axi_cbb_clk and not on the
corresponding IP clock. The SoC uses split FIFOs for async clock and voltage crossings. For rest of the AXI master and slaves the corresponding AXIP2P works on the master/slave clocks. Asynchronous cross is from the master_clk to axi_cbb_clk between the master partitions to grout. Similarly, asynchronous cross is from the axi_cbb_clk to slave_clk between the grout and the slave partition. The CV rail APB clients sit behind an APB split FIFO. One end of the split FIFO is clocked by the axi2apb_<n>_clk and the other end by the axi2apb_cv_clk which is again derived from the same axi2apb_<n>_clk clock. This is treated asynchronous to axi_cbb_clk.
- Data Backbone Clocking
The DBB clock is a divide by version (divide by 2), of the mux output of emcs*_clk. A branch of the same clock is the mchub_clk which is input to MSS HUB only. The dbb clock (called dbb_clk) is input to the DBB client chains. The dbb_clk (and all the derived versions of this dbb_clk) and the mchub_clk are asynchronous to each other. The Memory subsystem where the response/request links originate/terminate should add asynchronous FIFOs to handle dbb_clk to mchub_clk clock crossings. Consequently, the HUB partition receives the dbb_request_clk and dbb_return_clk branches as shown in the diagram

- Clock Controller Functional Description
below. mchub_clk and dbb_clk are same functionally but defined asynchronous to avoid timing closure complications. The dbb_clk is derived from one of the partitions and supplied to all other partitions that need it. The “Clock Macro” has buffer points where these clocks can be defined and treated as asynchronous by physical design. The mchub_clk is created locally for each partition by a divide down of the emchub_clk. These are named as mchub_clk, mchubb_clk and mchubbb_clk. The problem is that we cannot route two ratio synchronous clocks into a partition (EMC based clock and MC based clock). Doing so prevents partition level timing closure in PnR. The solution is to create the MC clock locally in each partition from the EMC based clock making sure that they are all in phase with each other. The DIV2 divider for all the mchub_clk branches is controlled by the same register bit. Since the dbb_clk is distributed to the various DBB clients in the SoC. Each chain branch of the dbb_clk has a request, return branch which are different trimmed branches and a branch for the partition/super client, axicif, mccif logic. These are called out as follows: dbb_clk: clock for various PCs and AXICIFs in client physical partitions. dbb_request_clk: Clock branch for the request path retiming stages. The TSA uses this branch as well and there is no separate TSA specific branch. dbb_response_clk: Clock branch for the response path retiming stages The level shifted versions of the dbb_clk for the AON cluster, CV units and PCIe controllers in the IO rail. All these dbb_clk verions have a request and response branch as well. dbb_clk, dbb_clk_cv, dbb_clk_ao, dbb_clk_PCIe are asynchronous to each other.
- DBB Clock Crossings
- For the AON cluster, the clock crossings between the AON_NOC_CLK and the DBB_CLK domains
happen in the TSA structure. The TSA chain has a split FIFO for async clock and voltage crossings. A similar scheme is used for CV and PCIe IOVDD rail controllers also. For BPMP/RCE/SCE clusters, the clock domain crossing occurs between the BPMP/RCE/SCE_NOC_CLK domains and the DBB_CLK domains at the AXICIF module. All other clients are similar as the clock domain crossings occur at the AXICIF. The AXI interface side of the DBB client works on the master clock.
- HOST Clocking
HOST receives host1x_clk. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below.
- Source
- Clock
- Destination Module
- Name
- Number of
- Instances
- Destination Module Clock Name
host1x_clk
- HOST1X
cpu2host1x_clk
- NVDEC
host1x2nvdec_clk
- NVENC
host1x2nvenc_clk
- NVJPG
host1x2nvjpg_clk, host1x2nvjpg_clk

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- Source
- Clock
- Destination Module
- Name
- Number of
- Instances
- Destination Module Clock Name
- TSEC
host1x2tsec_clk, host1x2tsec_clk
- DPAUX
host1x2dpaux_clk, host1x2dpaux_clk
- SOR
host1x2sor_clk, host1x2sor_clk
- NVDISPLAY
nvdisplay_hostclk
- VIC
host1x2vic_clk
- DLA
dla0_host1x_clk, dla1_host1x_clk
- PVA
host1x2pva0_clk
- Control Backbone
axi_cbb_host_clk
- Data Backbone
host1xclk
- Central ACTMON Clocking
- The central ACTMON sits in the BPMP cluster. Refer to the BPMP clocking section above for
details.
- GPCDMA Clocking
The SoC has one GPCDMA instance in Top. It has gpcdma_clk and gpcdma_pclk as its clock inputs. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below.
- Module Name
- Located in Cluster
- Module Clock name
- Connected to Clock
- GPCDMA
- TOP
gpcdma_clk axi_cbb_central_clk gpcdma_pclk axi2apb_2_pclk
- GPIO Clocking
There are five GPIO at TOP and one GPIO in AON cluster. GPIO have two clock inputs. They are gpio_ctl*_clk and gpio_ctl*_pclk. Details about the clock connections can be found in the table below. Out of the five GPIOs at TOP, GPIO_CTRL0 is in IO VDD domain and other four SoC domains.
- Module Name
- Number of Instances
- Located in Cluster
- Module Clock name
- Connected to Clock
- GPIO
- TOP
gpio_ctl*_clk gpio_ctl*_clk gpio_ctl*_pclk axi2apb_*_pclk
- AON GPIO
- AON
gpio_ctl*_clk aon_apb_clk gpio_ctl*_pclk aon_apb_clk

- Clock Controller Functional Description
- LIC Clocking
LIC has two clock inputs. Details about the clock connections can be found in table below.
- Module Name
- Number of Instances
- Located in Cluster
- Module Clock name
- Connected to Clock
- LIC
- TOP
intr_ctlr_pclk lic_pclk / axi2apb_2_pclk sys_sclk axi2apb_2_pclk
- Timers GTE Clocking
There are eight instances of generic timestamping engine (GTE). One instance per BPMP/AON/SCE/ RCE/PVA0-1 cluster and two instances in Top (outside of the clusters). GTE has three clock inputs. The pclk and clk inputs of the GTE are wired to APB clock and refclk input is wired to tsc_ref_clk. APB clock input of GTE in BPMP/AON/SCE/RCE/PVA0 cluster and two instances in Top (outside of the clusters). GTE has three clock inputs. The pclk and clk inputs of GTE are wired to APB clock and refclk input is wired to tsc_ref_clk. .
- Timers RTC Clocking
RTC is a real-time clock in the AO partition that measures elapsed time since the last cold boot. clk_s_sys_clk (32 kHz) is source clock for RTC and aon_apb_clk is configuration clock.
- Timers TKE Clocking
A Time Keeping Element module (TKE) encapsulates a set of NV timers and Watchdog timers. There are seven instances of TKE. TKE is instantiated in TOP and in each of Cortex-R5 clusters (BPMP/AO/SCE/RCE/PVA0/APE).TKE has tsc_ref_clk, clk_m_sys_clk and apb_clk as its clocking inputs. Configuration clock for TKE is APB clock of the partition in which TKE is instanced. So, TKE in BPMP/AON/SCE/RCE/PVA0/TOP cluster is wired to bpmp_nic_clk/aon_apb_r_clk/sce_nic_clk/ rce_nic_clk/dce_nic_clk/pva*_apb_clk/axi2apb_cbb_clk respectively.
- Timers TSC Clocking
TSC generates the tsc_ref_r_clk which is used by other timers including TKE. tsc_ref_r_clk (31.25 MHz) is used as a reference for running timers throughout the chip and is generated by skipping edges from a PLLP (either PLLP/10=40.8MHz, PLLP/12=34MHz) or Oscillator based clock.

- Clock Controller Programming Guidelines
#### 9.1.3.2 Clock Controller Programming Guidelines
##### 9.1.3.2.1 Software Partitioning
The CAR registers are controlled by NVIDIA provided firmware running on BPMP, this is referred to as the BPMP-FW clock services. Therefore these registers are not documented in this TRM, and the relevant documentation should be consulted to find how to control the CAR functions.
- BPMP is the owner of clocking and voltage related hardware components. BPMP firmware
manages the programming of PLLs and AVFS-NAFLLs, clock source selection registers, dividers, and clock gating control. The exception to the above is the programming of the CCPLEX clocking registers (handled by MCE) and some AO clocking registers (e.g., the AON slaves, AON-R5 is still controlled by BPMP). The secure clocks in AO cluster are still controlled by BPMP. Since there is only a per-register page block-level firewall protection available for most of the CAR pages and because BPMP needs access to clock enable and reset registers for power management, BPMP as secure master is the best choice. The specific goal for clocking is to prevent underclocking or overclocking secure state info/logic. The one exception is the AON_SCR_SHARED SCR Group, which provides access both to BPMP and potentially AON-R5.
## 9.2 Interrupt Controllers}.Body)
