# 9.1.2 Reset Controller

@{Key=9.1.2; Title=Reset Controller; Body=associated logic and the system-level reset domains. Asserting any of these domains results in a reset of the majority of VDD_CORE, CV, CCPLEX, and GPU rail logic and, potentially, some or all of the VDD_RTC logic. This reset architecture spans multiple modules, such as PMC, CAR, Timers, and BPMP. It also includes the requirements of the downstream units. This chapter also includes details of unit-level reset generation from these system-level resets and unit-level reset sources, such as software resets and resets for various power-management states. The high-level block diagram for the reset generation logic is shown in the figure below. The reset generation logic is contained both in PMC and CAR and is a subset of those units.

- Reset Controller
**Figure 9.1 High Level Reset Diagram**
- The reset logic has one main input from the external PMIC and one main output back to the
external PMIC. SYS_RESET_N is the reset input to the SoC from the external PMIC. This reset is asserted when all of the pre-boot core logic rails from the PMIC are enabled and stable and de-asserted when the pre-boot I/O and PLL rails from the PMIC, the 32-kHz clock, and reference clocks are enabled and stable. This is the only reset source that asserts all resets from the PMC and CAR. Some register state can persist through the other internal reset sources. SYS_RESET_N is distributed to the PMC for further system reset generation.
- Also available on this interface are the watch-dog reset WDT_RESET_OUT* pads. These are
sideband reset request outputs for PMICs that support such a feature. These pads are pin-muxed and are only used one at a time. By asserting one of these active low outputs (or sending an I2C SFT_RST request for PMICs that do not support this sideband input), it results in the assertion of the SYS_RESET_N to the Orin.
- The remainder of this section provides an overview of CAR reset logic. Refer to the PMC
section for additional details on the PMC logic

- Reset Functional Description
#### 9.1.2.1 Reset Functional Description
##### 9.1.2.1.1 CAR System Reset Sequencing
Refer to the Power Management Controller chapter for reset sequencing. The remainder of the system reset sequencing is done in CAR. This sequencing involves interaction with blocks performing pre-boot tasks, such as the fuse block, straps block, and PMC. The following sections detail that sequencing logic.
##### 9.1.2.1.2 AO CAR Sequencing
AO CAR contains both system-level reset sequencing for the AO Cluster and the AO Cluster’s unit reset generation. The L2 cold reset comes in from PMC. The raw L2 reset is passed along to unit reset generation logic as Early L2 reset and ckrstn. There is also a pre-boot version of the L2 cold reset generated for SPE, which delays for valid signals from the fuse and strap blocks, as well as the ready signal from PMC indicating the RAMs are released from sleep. All of the valid signals are only sampled when L2 cold reset is asserted so that it ignores the status when SoC is reset but AO is still active; otherwise, the reset of the fuse and strap blocks during a warm boot would inadvertently assert the AO CAR resets. The pre-boot L2 cold reset (before it is input to the reset extender for the SPE R5) is also an output of AO CAR to feed the reset generation in CAR Center. The AO sequence is shown in the figure below. The L0 cold reset also comes in from PMC to use for the AO MSS DPD controls.
- The L1 cold reset also comes in from PMC to use for the SPE WDT in AOTKE, RTC (including
AO WDT) and TSC.
- The L2 warm reset also comes in from PMC for modules that need to reset with the SoC
modules they communicate with, such as MCCIF.

- Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.2 AO CAR Center System Reset Sequencing**
##### 9.1.2.1.3 CAR Center Sequencing
This section details the system reset generation that occurs in the CAR Center module. CAR Center distributes the Level 1 warm resets for DFD unit-reset generation. It also distributes the Level 2 warm resets for ckrstn (CAR logic reset) and modules that formerly used “global_rstn.” This reset is then sequenced into early, pre-boot, and boot versions for proper reset sequencing of the various downstream units. The CAR Center sequence is shown in the figure below.

- Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.3 CAR Center System Reset Sequencing**
##### 9.1.2.1.4 Unit Level Reset Generation
Unit reset generation is performed locally in Orin, using the system reset interfaces distributed by the CAR Center and the AO CAR. These resets can be system resets or system resets combined with other local reset sources. These local reset sources include distributed software resets and hardware-driven power management sequencer resets.
- Software Reset Requests
Unit-level software resets are fully software controlled, through SET and CLR register fields. This means that only an active-high reset source signal goes from the local CAR register module to the local CAR reset generation block. Unit-level software resets are used both for individual module- level reset control, as well as for power management sequencing in PG partitions that do not have hardware sequencing. The reset defaults of these software reset registers for PG partitions in the VDD_SOC domain must be with the resets deasserted (state is 1’b0 with the active high reset register polarity). This is so that the partition is powered up and out of reset during the cold boot sequences. This means power gating sequences must explicitly assert and deassert reset on PG exit.

- Reset Functional Description
- Power Management Reset Requests
When an IP block wakes from rail-gated or power-gated states (CCPLEX C6/C7 or CC6 states, for example), resets must be asserted upon wake. These are factored into the unit-level reset generation for those units. As previously mentioned, the sources of reset generation for IP-level
- Power Management sequences can be either hardware generated or software sequenced with CAR
software reset registers. If a hardware reset sequencer does not exist, software reset registers must always be used. If software reset sequencing is used, there is a per-module mapping of software resets, rather than physically aware software resets. The software sequencing implementation must assert/deassert all of the individual software reset bits appropriately.
- AUX Clusters
PMC and AO CAR handle the unit reset generation for the AO cluster. AO CAR takes Level 0 cold reset, Level 1 cold reset and Level 2 cold reset from PMC and generates the AO cluster unit resets. The MCCIF also uses the Level 2 warm reset since it needs to reset on SC7 with the MC. The L0 and L1 resets only have an "early" version, meaning no delay is necessary. The L0 reset is used for MSS AO, and asserts only on a SYS_RESET_N assertion. The L1 reset is used for the SPE WDT in AOTKE, the RTC (including AO WDT) and TSC, so that all continue to operate until a Level 0 or Level 1 reset source is asserted. The RTC and TSC units also do not use software resets so that they can be TrustZone secure. The sequencing of the early and preboot L2 resets use the early version of the Level 2 cold reset. The CAN and SPE units use the preboot Level 2 cold reset so that their RAMs can be repaired, if necessary, and taken out of shutdown. Additionally, the CAN instances have a fuse, opt_can_disable, that can be blown to hold both CAN instances in reset. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of four aon_cpu_clk cycles. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 1'b1. There is also a power gating reset sequencer that sequences the SPE and NIC resets upon exiting power gating states. There are two resets for the SPE, spe_pg3nsysporeset_rstn and spe_pg3nreset_rstn, and one for the NIC, nic_pg3earlyreset_rstn, as shown below. The separate resets for SPE are required to distinguish between the actual power gating mode and power gate emulation. You need to leave the DFD logic active during PG emulation, so the nRESET input must be used for a warm reset. However, there is some state that is only reset on nSYSPORESET, so when you actually remove power, you must assert nSYSPORESET. There can be one reset output from the state machine in the PG sequencer, it just needs to assert either nSYSPORESET or nRESET depending on the value of the pg_emulate control bit. As far as sequencing goes, the AO PM sends a rst_req when it wants the resets issued. A sequence similar to that used in PMC, is used where the rst_req results in a rst_ack (also inverted and used as the reset itself), which clears the rst_req once received in AO PM, which then clears the rst_ack/ reset. The only difference between the SPE and NIC reset sequences are outside of this unit, where the nSYSPORESET and nRESET go through reset extenders to ensure the assertion is four cycles wide.

- Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.4 SPE Power Gating Resets**
- The <module>reset_rstn resets have individual software control. The <module>sysreset*_rstn
resets are pure system resets. Sensor Processing Engine (SPE) needs to be able to set up Cortex-R5 parameters in AO_PM and then issue its own self-clearing reset. This is done by triggering ao_swnreset_rst. Setting swr_swnreset_rst triggers the counter to start (which is to ensure the write response gets back to SPE). Once that programmable counter has expired, it sets the output reset. This eventually triggers nreset_aon_cpu_clk_srstn, which self-clears swr_swnreset_rst.
**Figure 9.5 SPE Software nRESET Generation**
The software resets for the SPE Cortex-R5 cluster can’t be asserted without ensuring that there are no outstanding AXI requests to SPE. If the resets are asserted with AXI requests pending, the Cortex-R5 cluster may hang. A system reset to clear the entire backbone is otherwise required. The recommended sequence to complete the self-reset and reboot is described below. Cortex-R5 software decides to reboot: 1. 2.
- Configure ATCM EVP registers with the address from where Cortex-R5 is to be rebooted
- Disable VIC interrupts (This ensures that Cortex-R5 does not come out of “quiescent” state
while resetting is in process.) a.
- Configure “I” bit in the CPSR register to disable IRQ interrupts

- Reset Functional Description
b.
- Write VICINTENCLEAR register in AVIC AMAP space for VIC0 and VIC1. All the bits in this
register needs to be “set to 1” so that all interrupts are disabled. However, there is a possible race condition while interrupts are disabled from the CPU; for example, an interrupt may be generated while the writeTXN to VICINTENCLEAR is in transit.
- It may clear the VICINTENCLEAR before ISR is activated. Therefore, the safest way to clear
the interrupt is to do it from an ISR handler, preferably an FIQ handler. Software may trigger an FIQ handler using VIC’s “VICSOFTINT” register. (Refer to Section 3.3 in the PL192 reference manual for the VIC register descriptions.) c. 3.
- Configure the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_AON_SWR_RESET_CYCLE_COUNT_0 register in CAR
with an initial value for the count down timer (This timer is used to delay the actual assertion of reset after the reset-request is received via CAR APB interface.) a. b.
- Timer ticks down on aon_apb_clk
- Configure the value depending on the time needed for the Cortex-R5 to reach the
quiescent state after CAR reset request is issued (idle state reached by executing WFI/WFE instruction) 4.
- Write “1” to SWR_AON_NRESET_RST field in the
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_AON_CPU_NIC register
- Execute “WFI”
- After reboot, software reconfigures some of the safety mechanisms when it gets disabled on
Cortex-R5 reset.This includes re-enabling: 5. 6. a. b.
- Cortex-R5 Event bus by configuring X bit in PMCR register
- Cortex-R5 Cache ECC
Other Safety mechanisms are not affected by Cortex-R5 self reset. Access via the Cortex-R5 AXI Slave port must not occur while Cortex-R5 is undergoing reset. If it happens, uncompleted transactions may occur to the Master who is accessing the Cortex-R5 slave port. But there is no hardware option to block the access to the Cortex-R5 Slave port. Software must ensure that no pending transaction to VIC is pending while the Cortex-R5 self-reset is in process.
- APE Cluster
All of the APE Cluster resets are based on perip_rstn (equivalent to prebootl2warm_rstn) from CAR Center. It is combined with various unit software resets to generate the required unit resets for the cluster. APE also has a system reset for the NPG registers that must not be cleared when swr_ape_rst is set for PG sequencing.
- BPMP Cluster
The BPMP CAR module handles the unit reset generation for the BPMP cluster. The Level 1 warm reset is used by the Timer block (TKE instance called u_tke) for the BPMP WDT, as well as by the

- Reset Functional Description
terminal node. The BPMP CAR module takes the Level 2 preboot and boot warm resets from CAR Center and generates the rest of the BPMP cluster unit resets. Most units use the preboot version of the Level 2 warm reset. The BPMP uses the Boot Level 2 warm reset to ensure that all other clusters are out of reset and halted and that other necessary units are ready for boot. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of five bpmp_clk cycles when used in lock-step mode. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 2'b10. The nRESET, PRESETDBGn and DBGRESETn inputs also need to be fully synchronized with nSYSPORESET as the synchronizer reset for lock-step mode.
- BPMP needs to be able to set up Cortex-R5 parameters in u_pm and then issue its own self-
clearing reset. This is done by triggering bpmp_swnreset_rst. Setting swr_swnreset_rst triggers the counter to start (which is to ensure the write response gets back to BPMP). Once that programmable counter has expired, it sets the output reset. This eventually triggers nreset_bpmp_clk_srstn, which self-clears swr_swnreset_rst.
- RCE Cluster
The RCE cluster reset generation is identical to the SCE Cluster resets. Replace "sce" in the reset names with "rce."
- SCE Cluster
The SCE CAR module handles the unit reset generation for the SCE cluster. The Level 1 warm reset is used by the TKE block for the SCE WDT, as well as by the terminal node. The SCE CAR module takes the Level 2 early and preboot warm resets from CAR Center and generates the rest of the SCE cluster unit resets. Most units use the early version of the Level 2 warm reset. The SCE uses the preboot Level 2 warm reset so that its RAMs can be repaired, if necessary, and taken out of shutdown. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of five sce_clk cycles for lock-step mode. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 2'b10. The nRESET, PRESETDBGn, and DBGRESETn inputs also need to be fully synchronized with nSYSPORESET as the synchronizer reset for lock-step mode.
- The <module>reset_rstn resets have individual software control. The <module>sysreset*_rstn
resets are pure system resets. There are specific requirements for the SCE Cortex-R5 wrapper that contains the Delay Lock-Step (DLS) logic wrapped around the redundant Cortex-R5 cores. This includes the requirement that nRESET assert any time nSYSPORESET and deasserts on the same cycle, as well as the requirement that the Cortex-R5 resets be fully synchronous.

- Reset Functional Description
- CCPLEX
There are two system-level resets, ccplex_scf_sysreset_rstn and ccplex_scf_l1sysreset_rstn, that come into CCPLEX from SoC to drive the main CCPLEX resets. These are the only SoC resets coming into CCPLEX from CAR Center. All other resets are generated internally by CCPLEX. There is a requirement that these resets be asserted for a minimum of 16 scf_clk cycles. This is achieved using a hardware assertion width extender. This reset extender must be instantiated inside of CCPLEX and does both the reset synchronization and extension. During SC7 wake, the clock is disabled until BPMP takes the IOBRICKs out of DPD and the CDB can properly distribute the clock. During cold boot, it was decided to also wait for BPMP to enable scf_clk, which means the reset deassertion coming out of the reset extender comes after BPMP boot has begun. This decision was made in order to make cold and warm boot as similar as possible.
**Figure 9.6 CCPLEX Reset and Hardware Reset Extender**
The CCPLEX reset inputs are early resets, just as CAR modules receive. The MCEs sequence the internal resets, and perform any necessary SRAM control sequencing, independent from the PMC FSM. The BPMP turns the clocks on in all cases, which means the clock is off until after L2 Boot Reset deasserts. This means fuse sense, strap sense and RAM Repair would all be complete before the output of the reset extender deasserts. The L1 reset, ccplex_scf_l1sysreset_rstn, has been added in the SoC for the SCF PG logic. When a
- CCPLEX Error Recovery Reset occurs (using an L2 WDT reset) some MCA state must be retained
through the reset, so the virtual CPU rail should not be power gated. Since the PG logic uses this L1 warm reset, which does not assert during a CCPLEX Error Recovery Reset, the power gates are not enabled. Similarly, the CPU rail must not be powered off during an L2 reset event.
- To prevent any clock glitches during an Error Recovery Reset, CAR also sends
car2ccplex_rstreq_clken (a version of pmc2car_rstreq_clken, to CCPLEX so that clocks may be gated prior to reset assertion.

- Reset Functional Description
iGPU There is one reset coming into the iGPU cluster, gpurstn. The iGPU-specific reset, gpurstn, is generated by ANDing the Preboot L2 Warm reset with a iGPU software reset. It is synchronized to the different clock domains. Similar to CCPLEX, the sub-module level reset generation is done internal to the iGPU cluster. This includes generation of individual sub-module level software reset control.
**Figure 9.7 iGPU Reset Generation**
Unlike other clusters/modules, iGPU primarily uses fully synchronous resets (both asserting and deasserting edges are synchronized). Exceptions to this would include the PMU submodule and portions of the FBP submodule. This is to help enable the finer granularity of reset control, so an upstream module can be reset without impacting a downstream module. With asynchronous assertion, you could reset the upstream module and the output of that module to a downstream module changes asynchronously, breaking setup/hold on the downstream flop.
- HSIO Cluster
Refer to the High-Speed I/O chapter for HSIO reset details.
- LSIO Cluster
Refer to the Low-Speed I/O chapter for LSIO reset details.
- MMPLEX
- NVCSI_CIL
NVCSI clocking consists of clocking for four NVCSI_CIL interfaces for CPHY 1.2 and DPHY 1.2 rates. The SoC also supports CPHY 1.2 speeds of 4.5GS/sec.
- CV Cluster
The CV cluster consists of one PVA cluster and two DLA instances. In addition to the CV cluster resets, the SoC contains a POD reset.

- Reset Programming Guidelines
- PVA Cluster
The PVA cluster uses Preboot L2 Warm reset for the Cortex-R5 resets and Early L2 Warm Reset for the majority of non-R5 modules.
- MSS
- MSSNVL_HSH
MSS shim logic is used to interface to iGPU. Before resetting iGPU, software is required to set up bit in MSS logic to ensure that transactions are completely drained.
#### 9.1.2.2 Reset Programming Guidelines
##### 9.1.2.2.1 Boot Software
Boot ROM and MB1 need to access various reset related registers. To determine what reset source requested the previous reset and at what reset source level, a read is required to the
- PMC_IMPL_RST_STATUS_0 register by Boot ROM. During each boot, MB1 then needs to configure
the CNTVAL counts for deassertion of system resets, by writing the values for each category of system reset to the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CNTVAL_0 register. CNTVAL determines how long after the reset request is dropped the Reset FSM is held asserted prior to deasserting. Refer to the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CNTVAL_0 register table in the PMC chapter for details.
- If external reset requests are required for any categories of system reset, they must be
programmed at each boot. If the PMIC does not support sideband reset requests, a scratch register must be written by MB1 to indicate I2C commands should be executed on boot. If the
- PMIC does support sideband reset requests, the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CONFIG_0 register must be
written (the associated I2C command scratch registers must also be populated). Any units that need to be brought out of reset by Boot ROM and MB1 (through the deassertion of their software reset) requires a write of 1’b1 to each field of the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers.
##### 9.1.2.2.2 Issuing a Software Main Reset
- To issue a software main reset, the secure BPMP firmware must write a 1’b1 to the
PMC_IMPL_CNTRL_0.MAIN_RST field. This is a self-clearing reset (since the reset is a system reset and it clears out the firmware that initially requested it), so no additional writes are required to deassert it.
- Set ALL Lane RX IDDQ, TX IDDQ and SLEEP
1.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
a. b.

- Reset Programming Guidelines
c.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
d. 2.
- Deassert ALL PLL ENABLE
a.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
3.
- Assert ALL PLL IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.IDDQ = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
4. (Optional) Assert UPHY Master Reset a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_RST = 1
5.
- Set PMC_IMPL_CNTRL_0.MAIN_RST = 1
##### 9.1.2.2.3 Issuing a CAR Unit Software Reset
Any time the secure BPMP firmware wants to issue a unit reset through the CAR software reset registers, a sequence using the *_SET_0 and *_CLR_0 registers must be used. To assert the reset, a 1’b1 must be written to all desired fields via BPMP-FW clock services in the associated
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_SET_0 registers. To subsequently deassert the
reset, a 1’b1 must be written to all desired fields in the associated
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers. To check the reset status at any
time during the sequence, read the desired fields in the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers.
- Issuing CAR Software Resets for the HSIO and NVHS UPHY
In order to avoid damage to the UPHY instances, software must ensure that the sequences in this section are followed when asserting the UPHY CAR software Resets.
- Asserting a UPHY Lane Software Reset
1.
- Set Lane N Rx IDDQ, Tx IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
c. d. 2.
- Assert the Lane N CAR Software Lane Reset
a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_Ln_RST =1
- Asserting a UPHY PLL Software Reset
This is assuming Lanes slaved to the PLL are already OFF. 1.
- Deassert PLL N ENABLE
a.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for PLL N Base address

- Reset Programming Guidelines
2.
- Assert PLL N IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for PLL N Base address
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 1 for PLL N Base address
3.
- Assert PLL N CAR Software PLL Reset
a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_PLLn_RST = 1
- Asserting a UPHY Master Software Reset
1.
- Set ALL Lane Rx IDDQ, Tx IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
c. d. 2.
- Deassert ALL PLL ENABLE
a.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
3.
- Assert ALL PLL IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.IDDQ = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
4.
- Assert UPHY CAR software Master Reset
a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_RST =1
- Save/Restore of Software Resets
- When entering a power state where reset status can be lost, the status of all the
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers can be saved. This is done so that upon
exiting the specific power state, the reset status of all modules are restored by writing those saved values to the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers. This is the only use case where the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers must be written directly, as opposed to the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_SET_0 and CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers.
- Accessing CV and IOVDD Rail Registers
Because of CAR’s distributed clock and reset distribution strategy, some of the CAR-related register pages end up residing in the VDD_CV and VDD_NVHS rails. To access these registers, the related CAR module must be out of reset, so the related rail software resets need to be deasserted first.
- IOVDD Rail Registers
There is an IOVDD rail software reset that must be deasserted during rail power-up sequencing.
- This reset is located at CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVHS_RAIL<_SET/

- Reset Programming Guidelines
_CLR>_0.SWR_NVHS_RAIL_RST. This reset must be deasserted prior to accessing the following register pages:
- GPIO_CTL0
- NVHS_UPHY
- PLLNVHS
- PEX1
- NVLINK_CORE
- ERR_COLLATOR_11
- ERR_COLLATOR_40
- CV Rail Registers
There are CV rail software resets that must be deasserted during rail power-up sequencing. These resets are located at CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_CV<_SET/_CLR>_0. There are three fields present, SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST, SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST and
- SWR_PREBOOTL2_WARM_RST to give software the flexibility to deassert these all together or
sequence them similarly to how hardware would for other Cortex-R5 clusters like the BPMP.
- At a minimum, the SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST deassertion would give access to registers on the
CV rail. However, there are two ways to sequence these resets in a valid manner when bringing up the rail. 1.
- Deassert SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST and SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RESET together first. Then
deassert SWR_PREBOOTL2_WARM_RST second. Deassert all three together in one software write. 2.
- In either case, deasserting both the SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST and the
- SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST are done prior to attempting any CAR register accesses (all three
should be done if access is required to the entire cluster’s register space). The following CAR register pages are located on the CV rail:
- ADC_CV
- CVNAS
- DLA0
- DLA1
- PLLCV
- PLLCV2
- PLLCV3
- AVFS_15
- AVFS_16
- AVFS_17
- AVFS_18

- Clock Controller
- AVFS_21
- PVA0
- PVA1
- ERR_COLLATOR_15
- ERR_COLLATOR_16
- ERR_COLLATOR_17
- ERR_COLLATOR_18}(@{Key=9.1.2; Title=Reset Controller; Body=associated logic and the system-level reset domains. Asserting any of these domains results in a reset of the majority of VDD_CORE, CV, CCPLEX, and GPU rail logic and, potentially, some or all of the VDD_RTC logic. This reset architecture spans multiple modules, such as PMC, CAR, Timers, and BPMP. It also includes the requirements of the downstream units. This chapter also includes details of unit-level reset generation from these system-level resets and unit-level reset sources, such as software resets and resets for various power-management states. The high-level block diagram for the reset generation logic is shown in the figure below. The reset generation logic is contained both in PMC and CAR and is a subset of those units.

- Reset Controller
**Figure 9.1 High Level Reset Diagram**
- The reset logic has one main input from the external PMIC and one main output back to the
external PMIC. SYS_RESET_N is the reset input to the SoC from the external PMIC. This reset is asserted when all of the pre-boot core logic rails from the PMIC are enabled and stable and de-asserted when the pre-boot I/O and PLL rails from the PMIC, the 32-kHz clock, and reference clocks are enabled and stable. This is the only reset source that asserts all resets from the PMC and CAR. Some register state can persist through the other internal reset sources. SYS_RESET_N is distributed to the PMC for further system reset generation.
- Also available on this interface are the watch-dog reset WDT_RESET_OUT* pads. These are
sideband reset request outputs for PMICs that support such a feature. These pads are pin-muxed and are only used one at a time. By asserting one of these active low outputs (or sending an I2C SFT_RST request for PMICs that do not support this sideband input), it results in the assertion of the SYS_RESET_N to the Orin.
- The remainder of this section provides an overview of CAR reset logic. Refer to the PMC
section for additional details on the PMC logic

- Reset Functional Description
#### 9.1.2.1 Reset Functional Description
##### 9.1.2.1.1 CAR System Reset Sequencing
Refer to the Power Management Controller chapter for reset sequencing. The remainder of the system reset sequencing is done in CAR. This sequencing involves interaction with blocks performing pre-boot tasks, such as the fuse block, straps block, and PMC. The following sections detail that sequencing logic.
##### 9.1.2.1.2 AO CAR Sequencing
AO CAR contains both system-level reset sequencing for the AO Cluster and the AO Cluster’s unit reset generation. The L2 cold reset comes in from PMC. The raw L2 reset is passed along to unit reset generation logic as Early L2 reset and ckrstn. There is also a pre-boot version of the L2 cold reset generated for SPE, which delays for valid signals from the fuse and strap blocks, as well as the ready signal from PMC indicating the RAMs are released from sleep. All of the valid signals are only sampled when L2 cold reset is asserted so that it ignores the status when SoC is reset but AO is still active; otherwise, the reset of the fuse and strap blocks during a warm boot would inadvertently assert the AO CAR resets. The pre-boot L2 cold reset (before it is input to the reset extender for the SPE R5) is also an output of AO CAR to feed the reset generation in CAR Center. The AO sequence is shown in the figure below. The L0 cold reset also comes in from PMC to use for the AO MSS DPD controls.
- The L1 cold reset also comes in from PMC to use for the SPE WDT in AOTKE, RTC (including
AO WDT) and TSC.
- The L2 warm reset also comes in from PMC for modules that need to reset with the SoC
modules they communicate with, such as MCCIF.

- Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.2 AO CAR Center System Reset Sequencing**
##### 9.1.2.1.3 CAR Center Sequencing
This section details the system reset generation that occurs in the CAR Center module. CAR Center distributes the Level 1 warm resets for DFD unit-reset generation. It also distributes the Level 2 warm resets for ckrstn (CAR logic reset) and modules that formerly used “global_rstn.” This reset is then sequenced into early, pre-boot, and boot versions for proper reset sequencing of the various downstream units. The CAR Center sequence is shown in the figure below.

- Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.3 CAR Center System Reset Sequencing**
##### 9.1.2.1.4 Unit Level Reset Generation
Unit reset generation is performed locally in Orin, using the system reset interfaces distributed by the CAR Center and the AO CAR. These resets can be system resets or system resets combined with other local reset sources. These local reset sources include distributed software resets and hardware-driven power management sequencer resets.
- Software Reset Requests
Unit-level software resets are fully software controlled, through SET and CLR register fields. This means that only an active-high reset source signal goes from the local CAR register module to the local CAR reset generation block. Unit-level software resets are used both for individual module- level reset control, as well as for power management sequencing in PG partitions that do not have hardware sequencing. The reset defaults of these software reset registers for PG partitions in the VDD_SOC domain must be with the resets deasserted (state is 1’b0 with the active high reset register polarity). This is so that the partition is powered up and out of reset during the cold boot sequences. This means power gating sequences must explicitly assert and deassert reset on PG exit.

- Reset Functional Description
- Power Management Reset Requests
When an IP block wakes from rail-gated or power-gated states (CCPLEX C6/C7 or CC6 states, for example), resets must be asserted upon wake. These are factored into the unit-level reset generation for those units. As previously mentioned, the sources of reset generation for IP-level
- Power Management sequences can be either hardware generated or software sequenced with CAR
software reset registers. If a hardware reset sequencer does not exist, software reset registers must always be used. If software reset sequencing is used, there is a per-module mapping of software resets, rather than physically aware software resets. The software sequencing implementation must assert/deassert all of the individual software reset bits appropriately.
- AUX Clusters
PMC and AO CAR handle the unit reset generation for the AO cluster. AO CAR takes Level 0 cold reset, Level 1 cold reset and Level 2 cold reset from PMC and generates the AO cluster unit resets. The MCCIF also uses the Level 2 warm reset since it needs to reset on SC7 with the MC. The L0 and L1 resets only have an "early" version, meaning no delay is necessary. The L0 reset is used for MSS AO, and asserts only on a SYS_RESET_N assertion. The L1 reset is used for the SPE WDT in AOTKE, the RTC (including AO WDT) and TSC, so that all continue to operate until a Level 0 or Level 1 reset source is asserted. The RTC and TSC units also do not use software resets so that they can be TrustZone secure. The sequencing of the early and preboot L2 resets use the early version of the Level 2 cold reset. The CAN and SPE units use the preboot Level 2 cold reset so that their RAMs can be repaired, if necessary, and taken out of shutdown. Additionally, the CAN instances have a fuse, opt_can_disable, that can be blown to hold both CAN instances in reset. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of four aon_cpu_clk cycles. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 1'b1. There is also a power gating reset sequencer that sequences the SPE and NIC resets upon exiting power gating states. There are two resets for the SPE, spe_pg3nsysporeset_rstn and spe_pg3nreset_rstn, and one for the NIC, nic_pg3earlyreset_rstn, as shown below. The separate resets for SPE are required to distinguish between the actual power gating mode and power gate emulation. You need to leave the DFD logic active during PG emulation, so the nRESET input must be used for a warm reset. However, there is some state that is only reset on nSYSPORESET, so when you actually remove power, you must assert nSYSPORESET. There can be one reset output from the state machine in the PG sequencer, it just needs to assert either nSYSPORESET or nRESET depending on the value of the pg_emulate control bit. As far as sequencing goes, the AO PM sends a rst_req when it wants the resets issued. A sequence similar to that used in PMC, is used where the rst_req results in a rst_ack (also inverted and used as the reset itself), which clears the rst_req once received in AO PM, which then clears the rst_ack/ reset. The only difference between the SPE and NIC reset sequences are outside of this unit, where the nSYSPORESET and nRESET go through reset extenders to ensure the assertion is four cycles wide.

- Reset Functional Description
**Figure 9.4 SPE Power Gating Resets**
- The <module>reset_rstn resets have individual software control. The <module>sysreset*_rstn
resets are pure system resets. Sensor Processing Engine (SPE) needs to be able to set up Cortex-R5 parameters in AO_PM and then issue its own self-clearing reset. This is done by triggering ao_swnreset_rst. Setting swr_swnreset_rst triggers the counter to start (which is to ensure the write response gets back to SPE). Once that programmable counter has expired, it sets the output reset. This eventually triggers nreset_aon_cpu_clk_srstn, which self-clears swr_swnreset_rst.
**Figure 9.5 SPE Software nRESET Generation**
The software resets for the SPE Cortex-R5 cluster can’t be asserted without ensuring that there are no outstanding AXI requests to SPE. If the resets are asserted with AXI requests pending, the Cortex-R5 cluster may hang. A system reset to clear the entire backbone is otherwise required. The recommended sequence to complete the self-reset and reboot is described below. Cortex-R5 software decides to reboot: 1. 2.
- Configure ATCM EVP registers with the address from where Cortex-R5 is to be rebooted
- Disable VIC interrupts (This ensures that Cortex-R5 does not come out of “quiescent” state
while resetting is in process.) a.
- Configure “I” bit in the CPSR register to disable IRQ interrupts

- Reset Functional Description
b.
- Write VICINTENCLEAR register in AVIC AMAP space for VIC0 and VIC1. All the bits in this
register needs to be “set to 1” so that all interrupts are disabled. However, there is a possible race condition while interrupts are disabled from the CPU; for example, an interrupt may be generated while the writeTXN to VICINTENCLEAR is in transit.
- It may clear the VICINTENCLEAR before ISR is activated. Therefore, the safest way to clear
the interrupt is to do it from an ISR handler, preferably an FIQ handler. Software may trigger an FIQ handler using VIC’s “VICSOFTINT” register. (Refer to Section 3.3 in the PL192 reference manual for the VIC register descriptions.) c. 3.
- Configure the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_AON_SWR_RESET_CYCLE_COUNT_0 register in CAR
with an initial value for the count down timer (This timer is used to delay the actual assertion of reset after the reset-request is received via CAR APB interface.) a. b.
- Timer ticks down on aon_apb_clk
- Configure the value depending on the time needed for the Cortex-R5 to reach the
quiescent state after CAR reset request is issued (idle state reached by executing WFI/WFE instruction) 4.
- Write “1” to SWR_AON_NRESET_RST field in the
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_AON_CPU_NIC register
- Execute “WFI”
- After reboot, software reconfigures some of the safety mechanisms when it gets disabled on
Cortex-R5 reset.This includes re-enabling: 5. 6. a. b.
- Cortex-R5 Event bus by configuring X bit in PMCR register
- Cortex-R5 Cache ECC
Other Safety mechanisms are not affected by Cortex-R5 self reset. Access via the Cortex-R5 AXI Slave port must not occur while Cortex-R5 is undergoing reset. If it happens, uncompleted transactions may occur to the Master who is accessing the Cortex-R5 slave port. But there is no hardware option to block the access to the Cortex-R5 Slave port. Software must ensure that no pending transaction to VIC is pending while the Cortex-R5 self-reset is in process.
- APE Cluster
All of the APE Cluster resets are based on perip_rstn (equivalent to prebootl2warm_rstn) from CAR Center. It is combined with various unit software resets to generate the required unit resets for the cluster. APE also has a system reset for the NPG registers that must not be cleared when swr_ape_rst is set for PG sequencing.
- BPMP Cluster
The BPMP CAR module handles the unit reset generation for the BPMP cluster. The Level 1 warm reset is used by the Timer block (TKE instance called u_tke) for the BPMP WDT, as well as by the

- Reset Functional Description
terminal node. The BPMP CAR module takes the Level 2 preboot and boot warm resets from CAR Center and generates the rest of the BPMP cluster unit resets. Most units use the preboot version of the Level 2 warm reset. The BPMP uses the Boot Level 2 warm reset to ensure that all other clusters are out of reset and halted and that other necessary units are ready for boot. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of five bpmp_clk cycles when used in lock-step mode. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 2'b10. The nRESET, PRESETDBGn and DBGRESETn inputs also need to be fully synchronized with nSYSPORESET as the synchronizer reset for lock-step mode.
- BPMP needs to be able to set up Cortex-R5 parameters in u_pm and then issue its own self-
clearing reset. This is done by triggering bpmp_swnreset_rst. Setting swr_swnreset_rst triggers the counter to start (which is to ensure the write response gets back to BPMP). Once that programmable counter has expired, it sets the output reset. This eventually triggers nreset_bpmp_clk_srstn, which self-clears swr_swnreset_rst.
- RCE Cluster
The RCE cluster reset generation is identical to the SCE Cluster resets. Replace "sce" in the reset names with "rce."
- SCE Cluster
The SCE CAR module handles the unit reset generation for the SCE cluster. The Level 1 warm reset is used by the TKE block for the SCE WDT, as well as by the terminal node. The SCE CAR module takes the Level 2 early and preboot warm resets from CAR Center and generates the rest of the SCE cluster unit resets. Most units use the early version of the Level 2 warm reset. The SCE uses the preboot Level 2 warm reset so that its RAMs can be repaired, if necessary, and taken out of shutdown. The Cortex-R5 cluster requires its resets to be asserted for a minimum of five sce_clk cycles for lock-step mode. This is achieved by using two deep assertion width extender modules with their cntstartval inputs tied to 2'b10. The nRESET, PRESETDBGn, and DBGRESETn inputs also need to be fully synchronized with nSYSPORESET as the synchronizer reset for lock-step mode.
- The <module>reset_rstn resets have individual software control. The <module>sysreset*_rstn
resets are pure system resets. There are specific requirements for the SCE Cortex-R5 wrapper that contains the Delay Lock-Step (DLS) logic wrapped around the redundant Cortex-R5 cores. This includes the requirement that nRESET assert any time nSYSPORESET and deasserts on the same cycle, as well as the requirement that the Cortex-R5 resets be fully synchronous.

- Reset Functional Description
- CCPLEX
There are two system-level resets, ccplex_scf_sysreset_rstn and ccplex_scf_l1sysreset_rstn, that come into CCPLEX from SoC to drive the main CCPLEX resets. These are the only SoC resets coming into CCPLEX from CAR Center. All other resets are generated internally by CCPLEX. There is a requirement that these resets be asserted for a minimum of 16 scf_clk cycles. This is achieved using a hardware assertion width extender. This reset extender must be instantiated inside of CCPLEX and does both the reset synchronization and extension. During SC7 wake, the clock is disabled until BPMP takes the IOBRICKs out of DPD and the CDB can properly distribute the clock. During cold boot, it was decided to also wait for BPMP to enable scf_clk, which means the reset deassertion coming out of the reset extender comes after BPMP boot has begun. This decision was made in order to make cold and warm boot as similar as possible.
**Figure 9.6 CCPLEX Reset and Hardware Reset Extender**
The CCPLEX reset inputs are early resets, just as CAR modules receive. The MCEs sequence the internal resets, and perform any necessary SRAM control sequencing, independent from the PMC FSM. The BPMP turns the clocks on in all cases, which means the clock is off until after L2 Boot Reset deasserts. This means fuse sense, strap sense and RAM Repair would all be complete before the output of the reset extender deasserts. The L1 reset, ccplex_scf_l1sysreset_rstn, has been added in the SoC for the SCF PG logic. When a
- CCPLEX Error Recovery Reset occurs (using an L2 WDT reset) some MCA state must be retained
through the reset, so the virtual CPU rail should not be power gated. Since the PG logic uses this L1 warm reset, which does not assert during a CCPLEX Error Recovery Reset, the power gates are not enabled. Similarly, the CPU rail must not be powered off during an L2 reset event.
- To prevent any clock glitches during an Error Recovery Reset, CAR also sends
car2ccplex_rstreq_clken (a version of pmc2car_rstreq_clken, to CCPLEX so that clocks may be gated prior to reset assertion.

- Reset Functional Description
iGPU There is one reset coming into the iGPU cluster, gpurstn. The iGPU-specific reset, gpurstn, is generated by ANDing the Preboot L2 Warm reset with a iGPU software reset. It is synchronized to the different clock domains. Similar to CCPLEX, the sub-module level reset generation is done internal to the iGPU cluster. This includes generation of individual sub-module level software reset control.
**Figure 9.7 iGPU Reset Generation**
Unlike other clusters/modules, iGPU primarily uses fully synchronous resets (both asserting and deasserting edges are synchronized). Exceptions to this would include the PMU submodule and portions of the FBP submodule. This is to help enable the finer granularity of reset control, so an upstream module can be reset without impacting a downstream module. With asynchronous assertion, you could reset the upstream module and the output of that module to a downstream module changes asynchronously, breaking setup/hold on the downstream flop.
- HSIO Cluster
Refer to the High-Speed I/O chapter for HSIO reset details.
- LSIO Cluster
Refer to the Low-Speed I/O chapter for LSIO reset details.
- MMPLEX
- NVCSI_CIL
NVCSI clocking consists of clocking for four NVCSI_CIL interfaces for CPHY 1.2 and DPHY 1.2 rates. The SoC also supports CPHY 1.2 speeds of 4.5GS/sec.
- CV Cluster
The CV cluster consists of one PVA cluster and two DLA instances. In addition to the CV cluster resets, the SoC contains a POD reset.

- Reset Programming Guidelines
- PVA Cluster
The PVA cluster uses Preboot L2 Warm reset for the Cortex-R5 resets and Early L2 Warm Reset for the majority of non-R5 modules.
- MSS
- MSSNVL_HSH
MSS shim logic is used to interface to iGPU. Before resetting iGPU, software is required to set up bit in MSS logic to ensure that transactions are completely drained.
#### 9.1.2.2 Reset Programming Guidelines
##### 9.1.2.2.1 Boot Software
Boot ROM and MB1 need to access various reset related registers. To determine what reset source requested the previous reset and at what reset source level, a read is required to the
- PMC_IMPL_RST_STATUS_0 register by Boot ROM. During each boot, MB1 then needs to configure
the CNTVAL counts for deassertion of system resets, by writing the values for each category of system reset to the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CNTVAL_0 register. CNTVAL determines how long after the reset request is dropped the Reset FSM is held asserted prior to deasserting. Refer to the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CNTVAL_0 register table in the PMC chapter for details.
- If external reset requests are required for any categories of system reset, they must be
programmed at each boot. If the PMIC does not support sideband reset requests, a scratch register must be written by MB1 to indicate I2C commands should be executed on boot. If the
- PMIC does support sideband reset requests, the PMC_IMPL_RST_REQ_CONFIG_0 register must be
written (the associated I2C command scratch registers must also be populated). Any units that need to be brought out of reset by Boot ROM and MB1 (through the deassertion of their software reset) requires a write of 1’b1 to each field of the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers.
##### 9.1.2.2.2 Issuing a Software Main Reset
- To issue a software main reset, the secure BPMP firmware must write a 1’b1 to the
PMC_IMPL_CNTRL_0.MAIN_RST field. This is a self-clearing reset (since the reset is a system reset and it clears out the firmware that initially requested it), so no additional writes are required to deassert it.
- Set ALL Lane RX IDDQ, TX IDDQ and SLEEP
1.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
a. b.

- Reset Programming Guidelines
c.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
d. 2.
- Deassert ALL PLL ENABLE
a.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
3.
- Assert ALL PLL IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.IDDQ = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
4. (Optional) Assert UPHY Master Reset a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_RST = 1
5.
- Set PMC_IMPL_CNTRL_0.MAIN_RST = 1
##### 9.1.2.2.3 Issuing a CAR Unit Software Reset
Any time the secure BPMP firmware wants to issue a unit reset through the CAR software reset registers, a sequence using the *_SET_0 and *_CLR_0 registers must be used. To assert the reset, a 1’b1 must be written to all desired fields via BPMP-FW clock services in the associated
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_SET_0 registers. To subsequently deassert the
reset, a 1’b1 must be written to all desired fields in the associated
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers. To check the reset status at any
time during the sequence, read the desired fields in the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers.
- Issuing CAR Software Resets for the HSIO and NVHS UPHY
In order to avoid damage to the UPHY instances, software must ensure that the sequences in this section are followed when asserting the UPHY CAR software Resets.
- Asserting a UPHY Lane Software Reset
1.
- Set Lane N Rx IDDQ, Tx IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for Lane N’s Base address
c. d. 2.
- Assert the Lane N CAR Software Lane Reset
a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_Ln_RST =1
- Asserting a UPHY PLL Software Reset
This is assuming Lanes slaved to the PLL are already OFF. 1.
- Deassert PLL N ENABLE
a.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for PLL N Base address

- Reset Programming Guidelines
2.
- Assert PLL N IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for PLL N Base address
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 1 for PLL N Base address
3.
- Assert PLL N CAR Software PLL Reset
a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_PLLn_RST = 1
- Asserting a UPHY Master Software Reset
1.
- Set ALL Lane Rx IDDQ, Tx IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.RX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_SLEEP = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_LANE_MISC_CTL_1_0.TX_IDDQ = 1 for All Lanes’ Base addresses
c. d. 2.
- Deassert ALL PLL ENABLE
a.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.ENABLE = 0 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
3.
- Assert ALL PLL IDDQ and SLEEP
a. b.
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.SLEEP = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
- Set UPHY_PLL_CTL_1_0.IDDQ = 1 for All PLLs’ Base addresses
4.
- Assert UPHY CAR software Master Reset
a.
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_*_UPHY_SET_0.SET_SWR_*_UPHY_RST =1
- Save/Restore of Software Resets
- When entering a power state where reset status can be lost, the status of all the
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers can be saved. This is done so that upon
exiting the specific power state, the reset status of all modules are restored by writing those saved values to the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers. This is the only use case where the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_0 registers must be written directly, as opposed to the associated CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_SET_0 and CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_<MODULE>_CLR_0 registers.
- Accessing CV and IOVDD Rail Registers
Because of CAR’s distributed clock and reset distribution strategy, some of the CAR-related register pages end up residing in the VDD_CV and VDD_NVHS rails. To access these registers, the related CAR module must be out of reset, so the related rail software resets need to be deasserted first.
- IOVDD Rail Registers
There is an IOVDD rail software reset that must be deasserted during rail power-up sequencing.
- This reset is located at CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVHS_RAIL<_SET/

- Reset Programming Guidelines
_CLR>_0.SWR_NVHS_RAIL_RST. This reset must be deasserted prior to accessing the following register pages:
- GPIO_CTL0
- NVHS_UPHY
- PLLNVHS
- PEX1
- NVLINK_CORE
- ERR_COLLATOR_11
- ERR_COLLATOR_40
- CV Rail Registers
There are CV rail software resets that must be deasserted during rail power-up sequencing. These resets are located at CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_CV<_SET/_CLR>_0. There are three fields present, SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST, SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST and
- SWR_PREBOOTL2_WARM_RST to give software the flexibility to deassert these all together or
sequence them similarly to how hardware would for other Cortex-R5 clusters like the BPMP.
- At a minimum, the SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST deassertion would give access to registers on the
CV rail. However, there are two ways to sequence these resets in a valid manner when bringing up the rail. 1.
- Deassert SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST and SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RESET together first. Then
deassert SWR_PREBOOTL2_WARM_RST second. Deassert all three together in one software write. 2.
- In either case, deasserting both the SWR_EARLYL1_WARM_RST and the
- SWR_EARLYL2_WARM_RST are done prior to attempting any CAR register accesses (all three
should be done if access is required to the entire cluster’s register space). The following CAR register pages are located on the CV rail:
- ADC_CV
- CVNAS
- DLA0
- DLA1
- PLLCV
- PLLCV2
- PLLCV3
- AVFS_15
- AVFS_16
- AVFS_17
- AVFS_18

- Clock Controller
- AVFS_21
- PVA0
- PVA1
- ERR_COLLATOR_15
- ERR_COLLATOR_16
- ERR_COLLATOR_17
- ERR_COLLATOR_18}.Body)
