# 9.10.3 DFD Registers

Refer to Reading Register Tables in the Introduction section for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.
#### 9.10.3.1 CoreSight_CFG Registers
For base address of this block of registers, please refer to CSITE in the System Address Map.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_CTL_0
- CoreSight Control Register
This register can be used to configure various debug features of CoreSight.
- Offset: 0x20000
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Reset: 0x00010101 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxx1,xxxx,xx01,xxxx,xxx1)

- CoreSight_CFG Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 RTCK_SPEED:
- RTCK delay (Synchronized or Direct). This is used to select between the
early and late rtck from ARM7
- RTCK is delayed by one synchronizer when this bit is enabled and set to 2
otherwise.
- The additional synchronizer was added to support enabling RTCK on
legacy SoC FPGA. 0 = SLOW 1 = FAST 0x0 TIMEOUT_VAL:
- Choose a small timeout versus a long timeout. The timeouts are fixed and
not changeable
- The short timeout is to reduce the duration of system verification
simulations. 1 = SHORT_TIMEOUT 0 = LONG_TIMEOUT 0x1 TIMEOUT_EN: Enable TimeOut for an Access on the Debug APB Bus to CCPLEX, APE, iLA.
- Each Master port emanating from CoreSight Debug APB to external world
has a timeout.
- This timeout is triggered on each psel generated. If pready is not received
within the duration configured by the TIMEOUT_VAL register, the timer associated with the timeout expires resulting in a deadcode on the corresponding prdata of the Debug APB bus with the following values yet completing the access gracefully with a pready of 1. 0xdead0002 - CCPLEX Cluster timed out. 0xdead0004 - APE Debug APB timed out. 0xdead0006 - LA Debug APB timed out. 0xdead0008 - BPMP Debug APB timed out. 0xdead000A - SPE Debug APB timed out. 0xdead000C - SCE Debug APB timed out. 0xdead000E - RCE Debug APB timed out. 0xdead0010 - DCE Debug APB timed out.0xdead0041 - PVA Collator
- RomTable / Funnel Debug APB Timed Out
0xdead0043 - PVA0-R5PIL Debug APB Timed Out 0xdead0045 - PVA0-VPS0 Debug APB Timed Out 0xdead0047 - PVA0-VPS1 Debug APB Timed Out 0xdead0049 - PVA1-R5PIL Debug APB Timed Out 0xdead004B - PVA1-VPS0 Debug APB Timed Out 0xdead004D - PVA1-VPS1 Debug APB Timed Out 0xdead004F - PVA0 Rom Table Timed Out 0xdead0051 - PVA1 Rom Table Timed Out
- On receiving the deadcode, the respective ALIVE STATUS registers can be
queried to determine the exact cause of no-response 1 = ENABLE 0 = DISABLE

- CoreSight_CFG Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1 BLOCK_ACCESS_EN:
- Block accesses to non-responsive CPUs over the Debug APB
- The accesses complete gracefully with a deadcode value as below and
pready asserted as 1 0xdead0003 - APE is non responsive. 0xdead0005 - LA is non responsive. 0xdead0007 - BPMP is non responsive. 0xdead0009 - SPE is non responsive. 0xdead000B - SCE is non responsive. 0xdead000D - RCE is non responsive. 0xdead0011 - DCE is non responsive.0xdead0040 - PVA Collator
- RomTable / Funnel is non responsive
0xdead0042 - PVA0- R5PIL is non responsive 0xdead0044 - PVA0-VPS0 is non responsive 0xdead0046 - PVA0-VPS1 is non responsive 0xdead0048 - PVA1- R5PIL is non responsive 0xdead004A - PVA1-VPS0 is non responsive 0xdead004C - PVA1-VPS1 is non responsive 0xdead004E - PVA0 Rom Table is non responsive 0xdead0050 - PVA1 Rom Table is non responsive
- On receiving the deadcode, the respective ALIVE STATUS registers can be
queried to determine the exact cause of no-response.
- Following are the cases when the accesses are blocked
CCPLEX :
- CCPLEX rail gated OR NONCPU of CCPLEX power gated
- CCPLEX has its PRESETDBG asserted
- Note: Accesses not gated for clock gating of CPU clock as the ROM tables
live on the Debug APB clk APE :
- APE powergated together with its ROM table
- APE clock gated
- Note : Accesses not gated for APE under reset as ROM table logic can still
work via the CoreSight reset LA :
- LA clk gated
- LA under reset
- Note : Accesses not gated for Power gating as CoreSight and LA on same
Power domain. 1 = ENABLE 0 = DISABLE
- CORESIGHT_CFG_EXTERNAL_DEBUG_REQ_0
- CoreSight External Debug Request Register
Each ARM CPU implements an edbreq active high level input. This input is one of the many Halting Debug Events that can make CPU enter into Debug State. A high value on edbreq signals the CPU to enter into debug state. Clearing these bits does NOT restart the processor, but the request needs to be cleared before the debugger can restart the processor.

- CoreSight_CFG Registers
- Offset: 0x20004
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxx0,0000,0000,0000,xxxx,xxxx,xxx0,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- - 0x0 EDBGRQ_DCE:
- External Debug Request for DCE

