# 9.10.2 Functional Description

The following is an overview of the CoreSight based implementation for the SoC.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
#### 9.10.2.1 CoreSight
**Figure 9.77 CoreSight Connectivity Overview**
##### 9.10.2.1.1 CoreSight Major and CoreSight Minor Topology
CoreSight is primarily divided into CoreSight Major and CoreSight Minor blocks. CoreSight Major contains most of the top-level components like the top APBIC and ROM table, and it aggregates the trace and routes it to various trace sinks (e.g., ETF, HSSTP, DRAM/memory). CoreSight Minor serves the purpose of aggregating interfaces between various auxiliary clusters and CoreSight Major. The following figures give an overview of the CoreSight Major and CoreSight Minor blocks.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
**Figure 9.78 CoreSight Major**

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
**Figure 9.79 CoreSight Minor**
- System AMAP and Routing within DFD NIC
- Refer to the System AMAP for details. The following subsections emphasize the DFD related
apertures in the System AMAP.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
Below is a snippet of the System AMAP. Accesses from AXIAP in the address ranges in orange are routed by DFD's 1x2 NIC to CBB. The other accesses are routed by the DFD NIC to DBB. Also, DRAM locations (and other locations accessible to AXI-AP via DBB) with PA>=512G can only be accessed via SMMU.
**Figure 9.80 System AMAP Diagram**
- Relocation and Overlay of DFD Apertures
The CoreSight Aperture is in physical address range 0x2400_0000 - 0x27FF_FFFF in the System AMAP. STM’s APB-target aperture lies inside the CoreSight Aperture. STM (AXI-Target aperture on CBB) is in the physical address range 0x2500_0000 - 0x25FF_FFFF. The STM-AXI aperture is in an AMAP region of CSITE. Though STM falls in the CSITE aperture range from on-chip software or CBB perspective, STM’s AXI aperture is a target on the SOC-CBB, not on the debug-APB bus.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- DFD’s CoreSight DAPBUS Configuration
- APB-AP is connected to Access Port 0 of DFD’s CoreSight DAPBUS
- AXI-AP is connected to Access Port 1 of DFD’s CoreSight DAPBUS
##### 9.10.2.1.2 Trace Support
- Trace Network Overview
AMBA Trace Bus (ATB) constitutes the primary trace backbone in the system. Trace sources that can dump data over ATB include:
- Cortex-R5 (e.g., BPMP, SPE, SCE, RCE, DCE, PVA0-R5, PVA1-R5) ETMs
- Cortex-A9 (e.g., APE) PTM
- System Trace Macrocell (STM); implemented for software instrumentation purposes
- CCPLEX ETMs
Available trace sinks:
- ETF
128KiB capacity
- Can be configured as a buffer for on-chip trace storage
- Typically used when
- - - -
- Connection to off-chip TPA is unavailable or has insufficient bandwidth
- Traffic to DRAM needs to remain undisrupted
- Trace can fit into 128KiB
- ETF can be used to absorb bandwidth spikes in trace while streaming trace to DRAM or
off-chip TPA
- DRAM
- Capacity is determined by platform
- ETR is used to to convert ATB traffic to AXI traffic and streamed via DBB to a GSC
carveout. ETR has a dedicated GSC assigned to dump its trace in memory.
- Typically used when
-
- Connection to off-chip TPA is unavailable or has insufficient bandwidth
- Traffic to DRAM can accommodate trace bandwidth
- Trace does not fit in ETF
- TPA
- Acts as an off-chip device that stores the trace sent over an interface
- Arm’s DSTREAM is an example of a TPA, which has a 4GiB storage capacity
- Typically used when
- -
- Traffic to DRAM needs to remain undisrupted
- ETF capacity is insufficient to store trace

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- -
- Off-chip trace streaming bandwidth is acceptable
HSSTP is used to send traffic to TPA. Refer to the HSSTP section for details.
- Trace Port Mappings
- Table 9.70 Trace Port Mappings
- Component
- Port
- Connected to
- Comments
- CoreSight Minor Funnel
- M0
- CoreSight Major Funnel
- S0
- Reserved
- S1
- APE
- S2
- BPMP
- S3
- SPE
- S4
- SCE
- S5
- RCE
- S6
- PVA
- S7
- DCE
- CoreSight Major Funnel
- M0
- ETF
- S0
- CoreSight Minor Funnel
- S1
- STM
- S2
- CCPLEX Top Funnel
- S3
- FSI Top Funnel
- PVA Collator Funnel
- M0
- CoreSight Minor Funnel
- S0
- PVA0
- FSI Top Funnel
- M0
- CoreSight Major Funnel
- S0
- FSI Cluster-0
- FSI-R5
- S1
- FSI Funnel-1
- FSI-R52
- FSI Funnel-1
- M0
- FSI Top Funnel
- S0
- Core-0 I-Trace
- S1
- Core-0 D-Trace
- S2
- Core-1 I-Trace
- S3
- Core-1 D-Trace
- S4
- Core-2 I-Trace

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Component
- Port
- Connected to
- Comments
- S5
- Core-2 D-Trace
- S6
- Core-3 I-Trace
- S7
- Core-3 D-Trace
- Replicator
- S0
- ETF
- M0
- ETR
- M1
- HSSTP
- Tracing to DRAM using ETR
ETR has a dedicated GSC (GSC#15). The size and location of the carveout is based on BCT and can be derived based on the GSC’s BOM and SIZE registers.
- ETR performance bandwidth requirements necessitate SMMU bypass. However, per security
guidelines, accesses that bypass SMMU fall into a GSC. Hence, for performance purposes, ETR needs a GSC. Also, using GSC for ETR traces enables restricting accesses to trace information and avoids on-chip malicious code from snooping trace information. ETR is categorized as a boot client by MSS. This has an implication that ETRW (ETR write client)
- PCFIFO interlock is enabled
(MC_PCFIFO_CLIENT_CONFIG4_0[PCFIFO_ETRW_ORDERED_CLIENT]=ORDERED) by default out of reset. Software default for this is PCFIFO_ETRW_ORDERED_CLIENT=UNORDERED.
- PCFIFO_ETRW_ORDERED_CLIENT is programmed to UNORDERED for improved ETR DRAM
bandwidth. To ensure ETR maximizes data throughput, program ETR as follows:
- AXCTL[CacheCtrl0]=AXCTL[CacheCtrl1]=1 (enable buffering and modifiability attributes)
- AXCTL[CacheCtrl2]=AXCTL[CacheCtrl3]=0 (Write-allocate cache does not need to be
enabled, as caching does not help ETR write pattern, which skims across the entire range of write-range, which exceeds maximum size of cache)
- WrBurstLen=0xF (maximum burst length)
- ScatterGatherMode=0 (avoid scatter-gather mode)
RSZ: This is the ETR’s target buffer size in DRAM. Recommend values greater than 0x8000. Do not use value less than 0x8000 (128KiB) because, in that case, ETF (128KiB) could be used as a circular buffer instead of streaming to DRAM. ETR to DRAM throughput is 5.5GB/s.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Instrumentation Traces Using STM
Instrumentation traces refer to explicit software generated logs like printfs. STM is a CBB target. Various system initiators can write their instrumentation traces to STM. STM converts the traces into ATB format and routes them over the ATB fabric to different trace sinks like ETF, DRAM, or external TPA via HSSTP.
- The observed CCPLEX to STM bandwidth is 250MB/s when there is no background traffic on the
same target bridge and 49MB/s when there is background traffic on the same target bridge.
- CoreSight STM Timestamp
The example below shows how to infer the time interval between two observed timestamp values. In this example, the first timestamp is TS1 and the next timestamp is TS2.
- TS_DIFF = TS2 – TS1
A timestamp packet occurs every 32ns and has granularity of 56 bits. The TS interpolator right extends this by 8 bits (2^8=256).
- Hence, the timestamp value of the interpolator (output) is
- ( (Upper 56 bits + lower 8 bits) / 256 ) * 32ns
- (64 bit Timestamp Interpolator Output / 256 ) * 32ns
- Hence, time diff = ( TS_DIFF / 256 ) * 32ns
- ( TS_DIFF / 256 ) * 32ns
- ( TS_DIFF / 8 ) ns
##### 9.10.2.1.3 CoreSight Topology for Auxiliary Clusters
- The Cortex-R5 based BPMP, SPE , SCE, DCE , and RCE have a Dual Core Lock Step (DCLS)
implementation. The SPE consists of a single Cortex-R5 based subsystem, while APE consists of a single Cortex-A9 based subsystem. There is one PVA cluster, which consists of a Cortex-R5 based subsystem and two Vector Processing Units (VPUs). The topologies for these clusters are described in the figures below.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
**Figure 9.81 Cortex-R5 Cluster with DCLS Implementation**
**Figure 9.82 Cortex-R5 Cluster without DCLS Implementation**

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
**Figure 9.83 Cortex-A9 Cluster without DCLS Implementation**

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
**Figure 9.84 PVA Cluster**

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
##### 9.10.2.1.4 CoreSight Configuration Block
The CoreSight Configuration Block (CoreSight Cfg) is an SoC-specific aperture of registers useful for debug purposes and is accessible by the debugger over APBIC. Registers in this aperture are described along with the debug features in the subsequent sections.
##### 9.10.2.1.5 CoreSight IDCODEs and CHIPIDs
JTAG-DP registers are not accessible over SWD, and SW-DP registers are not accessible over the
- JTAG interface. There are two instances of SWJ-DP component, one configured as SW-DP with
JTAG-AP being accessible over the SWD interface, while the other is configured as JTAG-DP and accessible over the JTAG interface.
- For details of accessing the CoreSight in the SoC environment, refer to the ‘Arm CoreSight
The following table summarizes the IDCODEs of the different types of CoreSight instances in the SoC.
- Table 9.71 CoreSight DAP Component Identification Values
- Component
- Register
- Value
- Comment
- JTAG-AP
- IDR
0x 3 4760010
- AXI-AP
- IDR
0x44770004
- APB-AP
- IDR
0x54770002
- JTAG-DP
- IDCODE
0x6BA00477
- IRLEN8=0
- SW-DP
- DPIDR
0x6BA02477 The MMIO R/W register CORESIGHT_CFG_CHIPID_0 is used to check the connection to a particular CPU or Access Port. An MMIO write can be issued from the CPU or Access Port to this register and then the value can be read back. When the value read back matches the value written, the connection is considered successful. The shell performs this sequence and when the value read matches the value written, it prints out the matched value. Otherwise, it signals an error. To avoid false matches, different values are chosen for writing to and reading from different CPUs and Access Ports as summarized in the table below.
- Table 9.72 CORESIGHT_CFG_CHIPID_0 R/W Values from Different Initiators using Debugger
- CPU/Access Port
- CHIPID_VAL
- Comments
- APB-AP
0xcdcdcdcd
- AXI-AP
0xcacacaca

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- CPU/Access Port
- CHIPID_VAL
- Comments
- APE
0xaaaaaaaa
- BPMP
0xbbbbbbbb
- SPE
0x5e5e5e5e
- SCE
0x5c5c5c5c
- RCE
0x04ce04ce
- DCE
0x0dce0dce
- PVA
-
- PVA is not an initiator on CBB and hence PVA-R5 and VPUs cannot write/
read CORESIGHT_CFG_CHIPID_0.
- Instead, PVA-R5 can write to PVA_CFG_CCQ_STATUS3 a sample value (e.g.,
0x095a095a) and read it back.
- The VPU cannot perform MMIO accesses. Hence, the test could have VPU
write sample value (e.g., 0x05930593) to a location in VMEM and read it back. - -
- FSI
0x03510000 – cluster-0 core-0 0x03510010 – cluster-1 core-0 0x03510011 – cluster-1 core-1 0x03510012 – cluster-1 core-2 0x03510013 – cluster-1 core-3
- R5: cluster-0
- R52: cluster-1
- CCPLEX Cores
bcbc0000 –cluster 0 cpu 0 bcbc0001 –cluster 0 cpu 1 bcbc0002 –cluster 0 cpu 2 bcbc0003 –cluster 0 cpu 3 bcbc0010 –cluster 1 cpu 0 bcbc0011 –cluster 1 cpu 1 bcbc0012 –cluster 1 cpu 2 bcbc0013 –cluster 1 cpu 3 bcbc0020 –cluster 2 cpu 0 bcbc0021 –cluster 2 cpu 1 bcbc0022 –cluster 2 cpu 2 bcbc0023 –cluster 2 cpu 3

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
##### 9.10.2.1.6 HSSTP
- HSSTP Overview
HSSTP refers to High Speed Serial Trace Port. High Speed Serial Trace Port Probe (HSSTP Probe) refers to an Arm probe that converts the trace data output from HSSTP (Port) to a parallel format consumed by DSTREAM.
- HSSTP provides the means to extract trace from various on-chip sources such as execution/
instruction traces from CCPLEX ETMs, Cortex-R5 ETMs, Cortex-A9 PTM, etc., and instrumentation traces from STM in real time to an off-chip device at high speeds. The maximum trace rate is capped at 10Gbps/lane with support for up to two lanes providing a combined bandwidth of 20Gbps.
- Note: DSTREAM-HT and Arm-DS can be used instead of DSTREAM, HSSTP-Probe, and DS-5
mentioned in the diagram above. The HSSTP Controller receives trace in ATB protocol from an upstream ATB component. It formats the trace to embed the source IDs (also known as, ATIDs) thus generating trace in a parallel format. The formatted trace is converted into a Xilinx Aurora Protocol and sent as pairs of octets (8b10b- encoded symbols) to the supported lanes of UPHY brick on which HSSTP trace is enabled for the particular platform configuration. The UPHY brick used for HSSTP is also referred to as ‘PEX-UPHY’ or ‘HSIO-UPHY’ to differentiate it from other UPHY bricks in the chip. The parallel 8b10b encoded octets are serialized within the UPHY and transmitted over a pair of differential signals, which constitute as one ‘lane’.
- Depending on the non-debug/functional use case for the particular port on the platform, a
connector is available. For example, in platforms where UPHY Lane-0 is connected to a USB connector, HSSTP is available over the USB connector. Arm provides a USB-to-HSSTP adapter that converts the USB form factor to the SAMTEC-ERM8 form factor. The Arm HSSTP probe and DSTREAM(-ST) connected downstream eventually make the trace available to the Host (PC).

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- HSSTP Target Use Case
In automotive, for safety reasons, all known issues that adversely affect the system must be analyzed and the cause determined so they can be fixed. If issues are found, e.g., a function takes 500ms more to respond than expected, causing it to miss its deadline, then it is necessary to understand why, especially if it is a critical function like applying brakes or a steering reaction. If the event occurs only under a specific set of circumstances, to reproduce the issue, it is necessary to know all the circumstances that led to it. This can be difficult to determine. Tracing to DRAM may disrupt memory bandwidth and thus, affect system behavior. This may make it difficult to test system behavior, as the DRAM patterns while streaming to DRAM are different than in mission mode, when tracing is not enabled. For performance issues where such functional logic (e.g., DRAM bandwidth) is already stressed, it is helpful to be able to perform tracing without affecting memory bandwidth or access patterns. HSSTP provides a real-time high bandwidth (20Gbps) trace path to off-chip targets like DSTREAM- HT in a transparent manner without affecting system behavior, for example, DRAM bandwidth or patterns by streaming trace off-chip rather than to DRAM. The trace can either be stored in a circular buffer (8GiB for DSTREAM-HT) in the HSSTP-Probe or streamed to the host machine (bandwidth limited by USB interface between host machine and debugger like DSTREAM-HT). When used in circular buffer configuration, software can program the trigger to stop tracing when the event of interest occurs (in the above case, the increased response latency). This allows the circular buffer to store the execution details for last ‘n’-seconds helping developers understand what was happening in the system before the failure occurred.
- HSSTP Configurations
The following HSSTP configurations are supported.
- Table 9.73 HSSTP Configurations
- Cfg#
- Lane Mapping
- Maximum Rate Per Lane
- Maximum Combined Rate
- Comments
A
- HSSTP_L0 > UPHY_L0_TX
- HSSTP_L1 > UPHY_L1_TX
10Gbps 2 x 10Gbps = 20Gbps B
- HSSTP_L0 > UPHY_L0_TX
10Gbps 10Gbps C
- HSSTP_L0 > UPHY_L1_TX
10Gbps 10Gbps D
- HSSTP_L0 > UPHY_L4_TX
10Gbps 10Gbps E
- HSSTP_L0 > UPHY_L5_TX
10Gbps 10Gbps Note: To support 20Gbps, the system has a USB3.1 Gen-2 USB Type-C connector.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
**Figure 9.85 HSSTP Controller Block Overview**
- HSSTP Clocks and Resets
- PHY Bit Rates
HSSTP debuggers support the following bit rates per lane: 2.5, 3.0, 3.125, 4.25, 5.0, 6.0, 6.25, 8.0, 8.5, 10.0, 10.3125, 12.0, and 12.5Gbps. Due to clocking limitations in the UPHY brick, bit rates supported are: 2.5 (=10.0/4), 5.0 (=10.0/2) and 10.0Gbps. Note: Arm’s HSSTP probe does not support 8.5Gbps rate.
- Overview of Clock Domains
Below are interactions between different clock domains inside the HSSTP controller:

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- DBGAPB_CLK and CSITE_CLK: This occurs within the Debug-APB Async bridge that converts
debug-APB transactions from CoreSight Major APBIC on DBGAPB_CLK to HSSTP Collator APBIC on CSITE_CLK.
- CSITE_CLK (ungated) and CSITE_CLK (gated): Inside TPIU, traceclkin uses CSITE_CLK (gated)
while atclk and pclkdbg use CSITE_CLK (ungated). TPIU considers traceclkin as async compared to atclk. Additionally, the TPIU downstream interface (which is on traceclkin, also known as, gated CSITE_CLK) drives input to Sync-FIFO, which is on an ungated version of
- CSITE_CLK. tracectl output from TPIU that indicates whether output is valid or not (and is
used to insert data into the Sync-FIFO), is masked to 1b’0 when traceclkin is gated. This ensures that the Sync-FIFO does not continue to accept the same data multiple times when traceclkin is gated. Note: When not mentioned, CSITE_CLK typically refers to the CSITE_CLK without the SLCG.
- CSITE_CLK and UPHY Tx clocks (UPHY_L#_TX_CLK for HSIO UPHY lanes 0/1/4/5): UPHY Tx
clock is UPHY’s clock for the parallel interface to its controller. This is 1/20th the frequency of the serial transmission rate for the UPHY lane. For example, if serial transmission rate is 10Gbps, the corresponding UPHY Tx clock is 500MHz. The parallel clock is synchronous to serial clock to ensure no stray/invalid/empty cycles are observed on the serial differential interface, even when valid data is available on the parallel interface to UPHY on every cycle of the parallel clock. The block diagram in the previous section provides a high-level illustration of clock domains in the HSSTP controller.
- Overview of Reset Domain
The HSSTP controller has a software based L2warm reset, as it is located on the VDD_CORE power rail’s Non-Power-Gated domain (also known as, VDD_CORE_NPG power domain). HSSTP Architecture Specifications also require support for internally generated reset based on STPCR[nRST]. Additionally, due to its small size, HSSTP does not support localized power cycling, and hence STPCR[STP_PWRUP] also acts as a source of internally generated reset. To prevent deadlocks, the path from CoreSight Major to these bits (e.g., Debug-APB Async Bridge, HSSTP
- Collator APBIC, STPCR[nRST] and STPCR[STP_PWRUP]) must not contain any logic that is reset
based on the internal reset generation sources, namely STPCR[nRST] and STPCR[STP_PWRUP]. Note: STPCR[nSW_RST] does not generate an internal reset; instead it is used as a control signal. The block diagram in the previous section provides a high-level illustration of reset domains in the HSSTP controller.
- HSSTP Programmer’s Model
- Overview
The HSSTP collator provides a single debug-APB interface from external upstream debug controller to the HSSTP controller. HSSTP collator consists of an APBIC (which contains a ROM Table) and two APB targets downstream of the APBIC, TPIU and HSSTP.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- TPIU Register Layout
Refer to the CoreSight SOC-400 TRM, TPIU register summary section.
- TPIU Register Details
Refer to the CoreSight SOC-400 TRM, TPIU register descriptions section. TPIU supports tpctl and has a trace port width of 32b.
- HSSTP Register Layout
The register layout below is primarily based on Arm’s HSSTP Architecture Specification, section 11 Appendix D: Example Programmer's Model Layout. Modifications have been made where necessary. Additional registers have been defined to cover custom functionality to support configurable options for the formatter unit and to self-contain certain aspects of some features like trigger.
- Table 9.74 HSSTP Register Layout
- Offset
- Register
- Type
- Value
- Description/Comment
0x500
- STPSR
- RO
- Refer to the HSSTP Register
- Details section
- Refer to the HSSTP Register Details
section 0x504
- STPCR
- RW
0x508
- STPLSR
- RW
0x50C
- PCSR
- RW
0x510
- LLIR
- RW
0x514
- LPCAPR
- RO
0x518
- LPIDR
- RO
0x51C
- LLIR2
- RW
0xD00
- NVLPCR
R/W
- NV Link and PHY Control Register
0xD04
- NVFPSR
- RO
- NV Formatter to PHY Status Register
0xD08
- NVFFCR
R/W
- NV Formatter and Flush Control
- Register
0xD0C
- NVFTCR
R/W
- NV Formatter Throttling Control
- Register
0xD10
- NVFLCR
R/W
- NV Frame Length Control Register
0xD14
- NVFLSR
- RO
- NV Frame Length Status Register
0xD18
- NVPTCR
R/W
- NV PHY Throttling Control Register
0xD1C
- NVCRCCF
- RO
- NV CRC Coefficient

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Offset
- Register
- Type
- Value
- Description/Comment
0xD20
- NVTXDL0
R/W
- NV TX DATA Lane-0
0xD24
- NVTXDL1
R/W
- NV TX DATA Lane-1
0xF00
- ITCTRL
- RO
0x00000000
- RAZ/WI
0xFA0
- CLAIMSET
- RW
0x0000000F 0xF = Four claim tags have been implemented.
- Refer to the CoreSight Architecture
- Specification v2.0, section B2.5.10
- Claim tag registers, for implementation
details. 0xFA4
- CLAIMCLR
- RW
0x00000000
- Refer CoreSight Architecture
- Specification v2.0, section B2.5.10
- Claim tag registers, for implementation
details. 0xFA8
- DEVAFF0
- RO
0x00000000 Value is zero. 0xFAC
- DEVAFF1
- RO
0x00000000 Value is zero. 0xFB0
- LAR
- RO
0x00000000
- LAR does not exist (also known as, RAZ/
- WI) because LSR=0x0
0xFB4
- LSR
- RO
0x00000000 [2:0] = 3’b000 No lock mechanism exists. 0xFB8
- AUTHSTATUS
- RO
0x00000000 NSID, SNID, and SID are zero.
- NSNID is b00
Note: HSSTP does not support NSNID.
- Hence, the value is 0x0. Upstream trace
components decide whether debug security permits them to transmit trace. 0xFBC
- DEVARCH
- RO
0x47710A50 b’ 0100_0111_ 0111_0001_ 0000_1010_ 0101_0000 [31:21] = [ARCHITECT] = value is 0x23B (b’010_0011_1011) [20:20] = [PRESENT] = value is b1 [19:16] = [REVISION] = value equals
- LPIDR.STP_ARCH
[15:0] = [ARCHID] value is 0x0A50 0xFC0
- DEVID2
- RO
0x0 Value is zero. 0xFC4
- DEVID1
- RO
0x0 Value is zero. 0xFC8
- DEVID
- RO
0x0 Value is zero. 0xFCC
- DEVTYPE
- RO
0x50 [3:0] = [MAJOR type] = Value is 0x0 (‘Miscellaneous’) [7:4] = [SUB type] = Value is 0x5 (This value falls in ‘Reserved’ category.
- Reallocated by Arm to HSSTP.)

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Offset
- Register
- Type
- Value
- Description/Comment
0xFD0
- PIDR4
- RO
0x00000003 [7:4] = SIZE = 0x0 (4KB) [3:0] = DES_2 = 0x3 (JEP106
- Continuation code of the HSSTP
- Designer; NVIDIA is in bank 4; hence
0x3) 0xFD4
- PIDR5
- RO
0x00
- Reserved
0xFD8
- PIDR6
- RO
0x00
- Reserved
0xFDC
- PIDR7
- RO
0x000
- Reserved
0xFE0
- PIDR0
- RO
0x03 [7:0] = PartNumber[7:0] = PART_0 (for SOC_DFD: 0x1=CSITE_CFG, 0x2=SOC_ILA; 0x3=HSSTP) 0xFE4
- PIDR1
- RO
0xB1 [7:4] = JEP106 ID code [3:0] = 0xB (NVIDIA's JEP106 ID code = 0x6B) [3:0] = PartNumber[11:8] = PART_1 (0x1=SOC_DFD, 0x2=CCPLEX_DFD) 0xFE8
- PIDR2
- RO
0x1E [7:4] = Revision = 0x1 (for SOC_DFD: 0x1=HSSTP) [3] = Uses JEP106 ID code = 0x1 [2:0] = JEP106 ID code [6:4] = 0x6 0xFEC
- PIDR3
- RO
0x00 [7:4] = Manufacturer Revision Number
- REVAND = 0x0
[3:0] = Customer Modified = CMOD = 0x0 0xFF0
- CIDR0
- RO
0x0D
- Value is 0x0D
0xFF4
- CIDR1
- RO
0x90 [7:4] = Component Class = Value is 0x9 (CoreSight component) [3:0] = Preamble-1 = Value is 0x0 0xFF8
- CIDR2
- RO
0x05 [7:0] = Preamble-2 = Value is 0x05 0xFFC
- CIDR3
- RO
0xB1 [7:0] = Preamble-3 = Value is 0xB1 Note: For the register names listed above, an appropriate prefix (e.g., “CORESIGHT_HSSTP_”) is added to the registers in design to avoid namespace conflict and maintain existing nomenclature uniformity. The registers are not protected by SCR. RO registers ignore writes. Reads for WO registers return ‘0’ unless defined otherwise. Offsets behave as RAZ/WI unless defined otherwise.
- HSSTP Register Details
- HSSTP NV Custom Registers
- NV Link and PHY Control Register, NVLPCR
[0:0] = [LINK_nDALT_VAL] = 1’b1 (default)

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
[1:1] = [FLIP_BIT_ORDER] = 1’b1 (default) value (1’b1) : most significant bit of a symbol/octet generated by STP maps to the least significant bit of the same symbol/octet expected by the UPHY. Invert the order of bits in the 8b10b symbol sent to UPHY. value (1’b0) : order of bits within the 8b10b symbol sent from STP controller to UPHY is not flipped. [2:2] = [FLIP_BYTE_ORDER] = 1’b0 (default) Each data lane from the HSSTP controller to UPHY contains two 8b10b symbols. value (1’b1) : most significant byte in the pair generated by STP for a UPHY lane is mapped to the least significant byte in the pair sent to the UPHY. value (1’b0) : most significant byte in the pair generated by STP for a UPHY lane is mapped to the most significant byte in the pair sent to the UPHY. [3:3] = [PRE_ENC_FLIP_BYTE_ORDER] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b1): Swap Byte-0 and Byte-1 inputs of the 8b10b encoder. Also swap the character-type (data(D) vs. control(K)) associated with each of those bytes to ensure 8b10b encoder continues to encode the swapped bytes correctly as per their byte-type. Note: Do not confuse control-character type ‘K’ with designator for Ordered Set, Comma, /K/. Also, do not confuse Ordered Sets with Control characters. Ordered Sets can contain data (e.g., D10.2, D12.1, etc.) as well as control (K28.5, K28.2, etc.) characters. value (1’b0): Do not swap Byte-0 and Byte-1 inputs of the 8b10b encoder. [4:4] = [TRACEDATA_FLIP_BYTE_ORDER] = 1’b0 (default) value(1’b1): Swap Byte-0 with Byte-1 and swap Byte-2 with Byte-3 for the 32b trace data from TPIU before inserting it into the frame created by “Packing and Framing stage.” It does not impact the byte order of trace data as seen by the CRC calculator, which always sees trace data in original byte order. Also swap Byte-0 and Byte-1 of 16b CRC before inserting it into the frame created by “Packing and Framing stage.” It does not impact the position in which CRC and ECP are inserted into the frame. It only impacts the byte positions within the CRC halfword location in the frame where the two CRC bytes are placed. value(1’b0): Do not do any byte-swapping for trace-data and CRC while inserting them into the frames created by “Packing and Framing stage.” [5:5] = [FORCE_SINGLE_LANE_CHANNEL_BONDING] = 1’b0 (default) value(1’b0): Do not send channel bonding sequence as part of TIS when HSSTP is in single lane config. Send channel bonding sequence as part of TIS when HSSTP is configured over more than one lane (e.g., dual lane, also known as, x2 mode).

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
value(1’b1): Send channel bonding sequence as part of TIS irrespective of number of lanes over which HSSTP is configured. Although Xilinx Aurora specifications specify that channel bonding should be skipped during TIS for single lane mode and no Idle sequences (other than those that are part of TIS) should be scheduled during TIS, Xilinx VIP does not seem to fail initialization for single lane even when channel bonding is inserted. [11:6] = reserved (RAZ/WI) [12:12] = [SEND_PRIMING_SEQ] = 1’b1 (default) value (1’b0) : Do not send Priming sequence value (1’b1) : Send Priming sequence [13:13] = [FORCE_ASSERT_STPCR_NRST] = 1’b0 (default) AND’ed with output of STPCR[nRST]. Allows explicit control over when the first initialization sequence is sent. value (1’b0) : Overrides output of nRST to drive effective value of ‘0’ value (1’b1) : Does not influence output of nRST [14:14] = reserved (RAZ/WI) [19:15] = [CHANNEL_BUSY_WAIT_INDEX] = 5b’10100 (default)
- Used to derive CHANNEL_BUSY_WAIT_COUNT. Refer to the HSSTP Architecture
Specification, STP Status Register, STPSR section for details. [20:20] = [TX_DATA_EN_SRC_SEL] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL*_MISC_CTL_1[TX_DATA_EN] drives corresponding TX_DATA_EN signal to HSIO/UPHY. value (1’b1) : valid_symbol_indicator (corresponding to the HSSTP lane that is expected to be connected to the respective UPHY lane) drives corresponding TX_DATA_EN signal to HSIO/UPHY. [21:21] = RSVD [22:22] = [RETRAIN_LINK] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : No action. value (1’b1) : Actions listed under “Actions for link retraining” are performed when this bit is set. After completion of all the actions, this bit self-clears. Thus, it only remains set from the time it is programmed to ‘1’ to the time SCP and padding pair is sent as the last step in the retraining sequence.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Actions for link retraining
Action-1: If an Aurora frame is being transmitted, stall trace data upstream of “Packing and Framing Stage”.
- Action-2: If there was an ongoing frame transmission, terminate the frame by sending CRC/
Padding and ECP. Action-3: Send CC sequence and restart CC counter. (This reduces the probability of CC sequence occurring between the TIS sequence during retraining.) Action-4: Send TIS sequence (link initialization, channel bonding, channel verification). Action-5: Unblock traffic from upstream to “Packing and Framing Stage.” This causes SCP and padding pair to be sent, followed by the resumption of data transmission from upstream. Note: Although link retraining is supported in the HSSTP controller, Arm's HSSTP Probe does not support it. Thus, do not program PERIODIC_RETRAIN_EN=1 or program RETRAIN_LINK=1. [23:23] = [PERIODIC_RETRAIN_EN] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0): Do not perform periodic retraining value (1’b1): Perform periodic retraining. Basically, when the retraining counter expires, perform actions listed under “Actions for link retraining.” [28:24] = [LINK_RETRAIN_INTERVAL] = 4’b01000 (default) If periodic retraining is enabled, link retraining is scheduled after every ‘N’ number of CSITE_CLK cycles, where, N = ( 2 ^ ( LINK_RETRAIN_PERIOD ) ) * ( 2 ^ 24 ) For CSITE_CLK=625MHz, this allows a minimum retraining interval of approximately 26ms and also intervals greater than a few hours with gradually increasing steps. Default value provides interval of approximately 6-7 seconds if periodic retraining is enabled.
- NV Formatter to PHY Status Register, NVFPSR
This section is implementation specific. Status from different state machines used in the formatter can be displayed in different fields of this register.
- NV Formatter and Flush Control Register, NVFFCR
[0:0] = [NOCRC_CFG] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : CRC is added

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
value (1’b1) : CRC is not added [1:1] = [reserved] = 1’b0 (default) Not used. [2:2] = [SW_TRIG_OUT] = 1’b0 (default) [3:3] = [STPEN_CLR] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : DLY_TRIG1 does not affect STPCR[STP_EN] when STPCR[STP_EN]==1 value (1’b1) : if STPCR[STP_EN]==1, then positive edge on DLY_TRIG1 clears STPCR[STP_EN]=0 [4:4] = [STPEN_SET] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : DLY_TRIG1 does not affect STPCR[STP_EN] when STPCR[STP_EN]==0 value (1’b1) : if STPCR[STP_EN]==0, then positive edge on DLY_TRIG1 sets STPCR[STP_EN]=1
- Note: The “STPCR[STP_EN]==0/1” condition above is important. It allows both STPEN_CLR and
- STPEN_SET to be ‘1’ and yet not have any conflicts/race conditions upon positive edge of
DLY_TRIG1. [5:5] = [NRST_CLR] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : DLY_TRIG1 does not affect STPCR[nRST] when STPCR[nRST]==1 value (1’b1) : if STPCR[nRST]==1, then positive edge on DLY_TRIG1 clears STPCR[nRST]=0 [6:6] = [NRST_SET] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : DLY_TRIG1 does not affect STPCR[nRST] when STPCR[nRST]==0 value (1’b1) : if STPCR[nRST]==0, then positive edge on DLY_TRIG1 sets STPCR[nRST]=1 [12:8] = [DLY_TRIG0_PERIOD] = 5’b00000 (default)
- DLY_TRIG0 is delayed by 2^DLY_TRIG0_PERIOD number of CSITE_CLK cycles before driving any
downstream signals. This is not a pulse extender. It delays both, assertions and deassertions in a symmetric way. [17:13] = [DLY_TRIG1_PERIOD] = 5’b00000 (default)
- DLY_TRIG1 is delayed by 2^DLY_TRIG1_PERIOD number of CSITE_CLK cycles before driving any
downstream signals, similar to how DLY_TRIG0 is delayed using DLY_TRIG0_PERIOD.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
Any mention of the use of DLY_TRIG0/DLY_TRIG1 driving logic refers to the signal post this delay logic unless explicitly mentioned otherwise (e.g., by using terms like non-delayed version). The output from CTIs only comes into this delay logic and all subsequent loads (downstream logic) are driven from this delay logic. As the minimum value is 0x0, the minimum delay on these triggers is 2^0=1 cycle. The maximum delay is 2^31=2x10 CSITE_CLK cycles. [23:18] = [RSVD] [24] = [SEL_NVTXDL0] = 1’b0 (default) value(1’b0): Output from “8b10b Encoding and Bit/Byte Swizzling stage” acts as 20b parallel data source for 20b contents transmitted over HSSTP Lane-0. value(1’b1): NVTXDL0[DPAT] acts as 20b parallel data source for 20b contents transmitted over HSSTP Lane-0. [25] = [SEL_NVTXDL1] = 1’b0 (default) value(1’b0): Output from “8b10b Encoding and Bit/Byte Swizzling stage” acts as 20b parallel data source for 20b contents transmitted over HSSTP Lane-1. value(1’b1): NVTXDL1[DPAT] acts as 20b parallel data source for 20b contents transmitted over HSSTP Lane-1. [26] = [PERIODIC_INV_DPAT] = 1'b0 (default) value (1’b1) = After every eight clock cycles, invert NVTXDL#[DPAT]. Both, NVTXDL0[DPAT] and NVTXDL1[DPAT] should invert on same clock cycle. Count the cycles on which NVTXDL#[DPAT] is accepted by downstream async-FIFOs. value (1’b0) = Do not periodically invert NVTXDL#[DPAT] For inter-lane (TX1<>TX2) skew measurements, where longer pulse is needed on serial lines to avoid aliasing, use PERIODIC_INV_DPAT=1’b1 and NVTXDL#[DPAT]=0x00000. This causes periodic sequence of (8 x 20 =) 160 0’s followed by 160 1’s on each serial lane, which enables finding inter- lane skews (TX1<>TX2) up to 320 bits without aliasing.
- NV Formatter Throttling Control Register, NVFTCR
[5:0] = [MIN_FREE_CNT] = 0x0B (default) [13:8] = [MAX_FREE_CNT] = 0x1D (default)
- If available credits (empty slots) in Sync-FIFO (which is immediately downstream of Trace
- Formatter) go below MIN_FREE_CNT, enable Trace Formatter Throttling and if they go above
MAX_FREE_CNT, disable Trace Formatter Throttling. [16:16] = [SRC_THROTTLING] = 1’b0 (default)

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
value (1’b0) : Do not use source throttling during Trace Formatter Throttling value (1’b1) : Use source throttling during Trace Formatter Throttling When Trace Formatter Throttling is enabled, atreadys (output from TPIU) and atvalids (input to TPIU) is masked to 1’b0. Additionally, trigin and flushin (inputs to TPIU) are also masked to 1’b0. [17:17] = [CG_THROTTLING] = 1’b1 (default) value (1’b0) : Do not use clock gating during Trace Formatter Throttling. value (1’b1) : Use clock gating during Trace Formatter Throttling. This causes clock branch to traceclkin input of TPIU to be clock gated. It also masks indicator to
- Sync-FIFO downstream of Trace Formatter to ensure that the Sync-FIFO does not continue
capturing the same data multiple times while the trace out port of TPIU is clock-gated (stalled). Note: CG_THROTTLING is useful while operating TPIU in pattern generator mode when TPIU itself generates data to be transmitted downstream and does not rely on upstream data. In such cases, SRC_THROTTLING is not useful. But while TPIU is operating in normal mode (rather than pattern generator mode), either SRC_THROTTLING or CG_THROTTLING or both can be used. Also, when CG_THROTTLING is enabled, if traceclkin input to TPIU is gated due to downstream FIFO being nearly full, APB accesses to following TPIU registers will hang until traceclkin is ungated:
- TPIU Register Offset
- TPIU Register Name
- TPIU Register Description
- Comments
0x004
- CSPSR (or Current_port_size)
- Current Port Size Register
- Refer to the TPIU
- Register Details section
for details. 0x204
- CTPMR (or
- Current_test_pattern_mode)
- Current Test Patterns/Modes
- Register
0x208
- TPRCR
- Test Pattern Repeat Counter
- Register
0x308
- FSCR
- Formatter Synchronization
- Count Register
[18:18] = [TRACECTL_BASED_FILTER] = 1’b1 (default) value (1’b1): Enable TRACECTL based filtering. value (1’b0): Disable TRACECTL based filtering.
- When TRACECTL based filtering is enabled, downstream FIFO ignores TPIU output packets when
TRACECTL output signal of TPIU is 1’b1. When TRACECTL based filtering is disabled, TRACECTL

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
output signal of TPIU is not used to determine whether downstream FIFO should ignore TPIU output packets or not.
- TRACECTL based filtering is useful when TPIU is used in Normal mode, to avoid generating
downstream traffic when TPIU is idle. [19:19] = [HALFWORD_SYNCPKT_FILTER] = 1’b1 (default) value (1’b1): Enable filtering of Halfword Synchronization Packets value (1’b0): Disable filtering of Halfword Synchronization Packets Filtering of Halfword Synchronization packets is useful when TPIU is used in Continuous mode, to reduce downstream traffic when TPIU is idle. [20:20] = [FULLFRAME_SYNCPKT_FILTER] = 1’b1 (default) value (1’b1): Enable filtering of full frame synchronization packets. value (1’b0): Disable filtering of full frame synchronization packets. When TPIU does not contain any data and is not in the middle of a formatter frame, it sends full frame synchronization packets. It also sends these upon initialization until it receives data from upstream trace network.
- When CG_THROTTLING=0, SRC_THROTTLING by itself is unable to prevent data generated in TPIU
from flooding the downstream FIFO. This data is generated at 32b on 625MHz clock and hence can fill the downstream FIFO at a faster rate than it can be drained. This can trigger the throttling mechanism. In this case, TPIU is further deprived of real data from upstream trace network and hence continues to send full frame sync packets which in turn flood the downstream FIFO to cause the throttling mechanism to remain triggered. Thus, a livelock is formed where the only output from TPIU is full sync packets. (While SRC_THROTTLING is also not helpful when TPIU generates data while in pattern generation mode, as that is not typical during normal tracing, that case can be ignored.) To avoid a livelock, the rate at which full frame sync packets flood the downstream FIFO needs to be reduced. However, filtering all full frame sync packets is not possible because full frame sync packets are also used for frame alignment. Hence, only the density of occurrence of full sync packets needs to be reduced without completely eliminating the occurrence of any entire consecutive sequence of full sync packets. To achieve this, whenever a full frame sync packet occurs for first time or if it occurs after any non- full frame sync, it is transmitted. After that, the next ‘n’ (where ‘n’ = FSP_FILTER_LEN ) consecutive occurrences of full frame sync packets are filtered before transmitting the next full frame sync packet. If a non-full frame sync packet occurs, then the filtering of full frame sync packets it stopped and reset. Thus, any occurrence of full-frame sync packet after a non-full frame sync packet is always transmitted.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
Thus effectively, any consecutive sequence of full frame sync packets of non-zero length at least generates a corresponding consecutive sequence of full frame sync packets that is non-zero in length and whose length is less-than-or-equal to the original length. [29:24] = [FSP_FILTER_LEN] = 0x10 (default) Determines the number of full frame sync packets to filter that occur consecutively after a full frame sync packet occurs and is transmitted, before transmitting the next full frame sync packet.
- NV Frame Length Control Register, NVFLCR
[11:0] = [ MAX_VALID_FRAME_LENGTH ] = 0x100 (default: 1KB) User Data Frame length, in granularity of 32 bits (4 bytes). Thus, MAX_VALID_FRAME_LENGTH=0x3 implies, after 12 bytes (=(3 * 4 bytes) of data has been sent in the frame, end of frame set (including CRC, depending on no_CRC configuration value) is transmitted. Maximum amount of data between start and end of frame (excluding CRC) is when MAX_VALID_FRAME_LENGTH=0xFFF, when (4095x4)=16380 bytes of data between start and end of frame is achieved. As the granularity of processing data in packing and framing stage is 4-bytes, a counter granularity of 4-bytes translates to incrementing the count for every cycle of valid formatted data from upstream being transmitted downstream. If MAX_VALID_FRAME_LENGTH==0, then frame length is 16384 bytes (16KB). [27:16] = [ MAX_EMPTY_CYCLE_COUNT ] = 0x100 (default: 256 cycles) When no data is being sent downstream of TPIU for a considerable amount of time, this ensures any open frame is terminated gracefully. The number of consecutive empty cycles to be encountered is MAX_EMPTY_CYCLE_COUNT. Thus, a value of MAX_EMPTY_CYCLE_COUNT=0x2 implies after encountering two empty cycles, frame is terminated by sending end of frame set. The cycle is considered empty only if the stage is capable of accepting data but there is no data available in the immediate upstream component to be sent. If the stage is not capable of accepting data, or if there is valid data available from upstream, then the cycle is not to be counted towards empty cycle count. If MAX_EMPTY_CYCLE_COUNT==0, then counting of empty cycles is disabled.
- NV Frame Length Status Register, NVFLSR
[12:0] = [CURRENT_VALID_COUNT_STATUS]
- Indicates current counter value being used to check if frame length has reached
MAX_VALID_FRAME_LENGTH. The status is at 4 byte granularity. [27:16] = [CURRENT_EMPTY_COUNT_STATUS]

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Indicates current counter value being used to check if frame length has reached
MAX_EMPTY_CYCLE_COUNT.
- NV PHY Throttling Control Register, NVPTCR
[4:0] = [MIN_FREE_CNT] = 0x03 (default) [12:8] = [MAX_FREE_CNT] = 0x06 (default) If available credits (empty slots) in the Async-FIFO go below MIN_FREE_CNT, indicate to the scheduler that FIFO is full, and if it goes above MAX_FREE_CNT, indicate to the scheduler that FIFO is ready to accept data.
- NV CRC Coefficient, NVCRCCF
[15:0] = CRC_COEF = 16’h8005 (reset) Represents the coef value used in CRC calculation.
- The HSSTP specification recommends coef=16’h8005, which corresponds to
- Polynomial: G(x) = X16 + X15 + X2 + 1
- NV TX DATA Lane-0, NVTXDL0
[19:0] = [ DPAT ] = 20’hFFC00 This is the 20b parallel data that overrides the output of “8b10b Encoding and Bit/Byte Swizzling stage” for HSSTP Lane-0 when SEL_NVTXDL0=1
- NV TX DATA Lane-1, NVTXDL1
[19:0] = [ DPAT ] = 20’hFFC00 This is the 20b parallel data that overrides the output of “8b10b Encoding and Bit/Byte Swizzling stage” for HSSTP Lane-1 when SEL_NVTXDL1=1
- HSSTP Arm Standard Registers
- STP Status Register, STPSR
Refer to the HSSTP Architecture Specification, STP Status Register, STPSR section for details. Bit[8]=CHANNEL_BUSY indicates High when STP is still processing data and is not ‘always read as zero’.
- STP Control Register, STPCR

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
Refer to the HSSTP Architecture Specification, STP Control Register, STPCR section for details.
- AUX_UFC_EN
AUX_UFC_EN is RAZ/WI. HSSTP protocol does allow the ability to generate AUX UFCs to be optional and this bit being ‘0’ indicates that UFCs are not supported. HSSTP has three defined UFCs: Trigger UFC, FIFO overflow UFC, and Auxiliary UFC. Upstream ETF has the capability to insert triggers into the formatted trace stream and, hence it is acceptable to not explicitly support Trigger UFCs in HSSTP.
- The formatter and STP (in conjunction with upstream ATB protocol) executes flow control to
prevent FIFO overflow. When the FIFO has no trace-data to transmit, additional IDLE or Clock compensation sequences are transmitted, and FIFO underflow scenarios are avoided. nSW_RST When asserted (‘0’), the ‘Packing and Framing’ stage does not accept data from upstream FIFO. nRST The region indicated within the “CAR HSSTP + Internal HSSTP Reset Domain” as indicated in the HSSTP controller is reset upon assertion of this nRST bit. Unless indicated otherwise (e.g., STP_EN), none of the HSSTP registers (i.e., registers covered in the HSSTP register layout section) are cleared by this.
- After CAR HSSTP reset deassertion, this bit transitions to ‘1’. However,
NVLPCR[FORCE_ASSERT_STPCR_NRST] ensures this does not trigger transmission of initialization sequence. And, it ensures there is an opportunity to program various HSSTP registers after CAR reset deassertion and before the HSSTP initialization sequence is sent.
- STP_EN
- This bit is cleared upon assertion of nRST (i.e., (STPCR[nRST] &
- NVLPCR[FORCE_ASSERT_STPCR_NRST] & STPCR[STP_PWRUP]): 1->0). However, nRST is not the
reset for this bit. It is possible to reprogram this bit even while nRST=0. When deasserted (‘0’), the ‘Packing and Framing’ stage does not accept data from upstream FIFO. Also, if STP_EN:1->0 occurs while there is a frame transmission in progress (i.e., SCP has been sent but corresponding ECP has not been sent) in “Packing and Framing Stage”, then clearing STP_EN gracefully terminates the frame by sending CRC/Padding and ECP after the last data accepted from upstream FIFO (before Packing and Framing Stage stops accepting more data) is sent downstream. Later, when STP_EN is programmed to ‘1’ again, and data transmission needs to resume, SCP and Padding is sent by the Packing and Framing stage before starting to send the data. The CRC is also reset/initialized as required during the start of frame, accordingly. If STP_EN:1->0 occurs while there is no frame transmission is progress (i.e., no SCP has been sent

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
after the last ECP) in the “Packing and Framing Stage”, then clearing STP_EN does not cause an ECP to be inserted as that may cause an Aurora Frame Error.
- STP_PWRUP
- HSSTP is a small unit to implement independent power gating. Hence, STP_PWRUP has the
equivalent effect of nRST. Thus, the effective internal reset is: (CAR HSSTP reset (active low)) & (STPCR[nRST] (active low)) &
- NVLPCR[FORCE_ASSERT_STPCR_NRST] &
(STPCR[STP_PWRUP] (active high))
- STP Lanes Select Register, STPLSR
Refer to the HSSTP Architecture Specification, STP Lanes Select Register, STPLSR section for details. [2:0] = [STP_LANESEL]: This field decides whether HSSTP streams trace over one lane (STP_LANESEL=3’b0) or two lanes (STP_LANESEL=3’b1). As only single or dual lane is supported, STP_LANESEL[2:1] value is ignored. These are tied to b’00.
- PHY Clock Synchronization Register, PCSR
Refer the HSSTP Architecture Specification, PHY Clock Synchronization Register, PCSR section for details. Note: [15:0]=[SYNC_COUNT] is a 16b R/W field with reset value 0x2710 (decimal 10,000).
- Link Layer Initialization Register, LLIR
Refer to the HSSTP Architecture Specification, Link Layer Initialization Register, LLIR section for details.
- LINK and PHY Capability Register, LPCAPR
Refer to the HSSTP Architecture Specification, LINK and PHY Capability Register, LPCAPR section for details. Notes:
- LPCAPR[21:18] = [LINK_6LANE:LINK_3LANE] = 4’b0000
- LPCAPR[17] = [LINK_2LANE] = ( HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP == 4’b0011 )

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- LPCAPR[16] = [LINK_1LANE] = ! ( HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP == 4’b0000 )
- LPCAPR[13:10] = [PHY_FREQ]
- LPCAPR[9:8] = [PHY_CLK] = 2’b00 // Clock config A
- LPCAPR[5:5] = [LINK_nDALT] = LINK_nDALT_VAL
However, when two octets are presented to the UPHY in parallel, UPHY sends the least significant bit of the least significant octet first. To decouple a PHY’s default ordering from the nDALT indicator, parallel ordering of bits fed to the UPHY are decoupled from a bit that drives the RO-bit: LINK_nDALT. Additionally, a bit for byte ordering is also provisioned.
- LPCAPR[4:4] = [LINK_NOCRC] = 1’b0
- LPCAPR[3:1] = [LINK_LANES] = 3’b110
- LPCAPR[0:0] = [LINK_4BYTE] = 1’b0
- LINK and PHY Identification Register, LPIDR
Refer to the HSSTP Architecture Specification, LINK and PHY Identification Register, LPIDR section for details. [31:29] = [PHY_VER] = 0x1 [28:18] = [PHY_ID] = 11b’0011_110_1011 // (Continuation Code: 4’b0011, ID code: 7’b110_1011) [17:15] = [LINK_VER] = 0x1 [14:4] = [LINK_ID] = 11b’0011_110_1011 [3:0] = [STP_ARCH] = 0x1
- LINK Layer Initialization Register 2, LLIR2
Refer to the HSSTP Architecture Specification, LINK Layer Initialization Register 2, LLIR2 section for details. [0:0] = [LEN_CONF] = ‘b1
- CORESIGHT_CFG Registers Related to HSSTP
Certain HSSTP related registers need to be protected using SCRs. As SCRs are only supported in the CSITE-CFG debug-APB client, these registers are defined in the CSITE-CFG registers space. Turtle mode does not clamp any of the I/O.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_LANE_CFG

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_LANE_CFG is protected by an independent SCR. [3:0] = [HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP] = 4’b0000 (default) 4’b0000 = No lanes selected for output 4’b0001 = UPHY Lane-0 mapped to HSSTP Lane-0 4’b0010 = UPHY Lane-1 mapped to HSSTP Lane-0 4’b0011 = UPHY Lane-0 mapped to HSSTP Lane-0; UPHY Lane-1 mapped to HSSTP Lane-1 4’b0100 = UPHY Lane-4 mapped to HSSTP Lane-0 4’b1000 = UPHY Lane-5 mapped to HSSTP Lane-0 All other values are reserved and, when selected, cause undefined behavior.
- Note: HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP influences UPHY’s lane and PLL controls in HSIO and CAR in
addition to LPCAPR[LINK_2LANE] bit. This field does not influence the HSSTP controller behavior as to whether it sends trace over one lane or two lanes. That behavior is governed by
- STPLSR[STP_LANESEL]. Debugger-host checks the value of LPCAPR and programs STP_LANESEL
accordingly. STP_LANESEL is used as an indicator by HSSTP controller to choose single-lane or dual-lane trace mode. Selecting dual-lane mode (STP_LANESEL=0x1) if it is not supported (LPCAPR[LINK_2LANE]=1b’0), violates the Arm HSSTP Specification and Programmer Guidelines. In this case, the controller splits trace onto two lanes and as the second HSSTP lane would not be mapped to any UPHY lane, the trace data on that lane is lost and, hence the target is not able to reconstruct the trace. In LOOPBACK mode, CAR assumes HSSTP uses the same lanes for Rx as the ones selected for Tx. For example, if L0+L1 is selected for Tx, then L0+L1 is selected for Rx. If only L1 is selected for Tx, then only L1 is selected for Rx. Hence, no separate lane-mapping is required for Rx in LOOPBACK mode for clocks.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_SPEED_CFG
CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_SPEED_CFG is protected by an independent SCR. [2:0] = [RATE_ID] = 3’b000 (default)
- Table 9.75 CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_SPEED_CFG
- Commen
ts
- VCO
- Frequency
- TXCLKREF
(from UPHY to CAR)
- HSSTP_SPEED_
- CFG [RATE_ID]
- LPCAPR
[PHY_FREQ]
- Serial
- Frequency
- Parallel
- Frequency
(TX_CLK) 4’b1010 10Gbps 500MHz 10GHz 500MHz

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Commen
ts
- VCO
- Frequency
- TXCLKREF
(from UPHY to CAR)
- HSSTP_SPEED_
- CFG [RATE_ID]
- LPCAPR
[PHY_FREQ]
- Serial
- Frequency
- Parallel
- Frequency
(TX_CLK) 4’b0101 5Gbps 250MHz 10GHz 500MHz 4’b0001 2.5Gbps 125MHz 10GHz 500MHz
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_ACTIVATE_CFG
CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_ACTIVATE_CFG is protected by an independent SCR.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_ACTIVATE_CFG is on L2warm reset (csite_sysreset_rstn). This ensures
that the bits are deasserted post-L2 reset. UPHY PLLs turn off on L2 reset. L2 reset entry may occur abruptly. CAR ASIC relies on the valid indication from sidebands driven by bits in this register as trigger to start its sequence to enable the parallel clock for HSSTP (TX_CLK) to HSSTP and
- UPHY-LANEs. If CAR attempts to do this when UPHY PLL is OFF, that prevents the correct
frequency being provided subsequently for HSSTP parallel interface. Hence, upon L2 reset, as UPHY-PLL is OFF, the signals in this register deassert. [0:0] = [RATE_ID_VALID] = 1’b0 (default) CAR provides parallel frequency input to HSSTP and UPHY for HSSTP-to-UPHY interface. value (1’b0) : indicates to CAR that a valid RATE_ID is not present in
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_SPEED_CFG[RATE_ID] and hence, it does not make any changes to
existing frequency settings. value (1’b1) : indicates to CAR that a valid RATE_ID is present in
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_SPEED_CFG[RATE_ID] and parallel frequency should be updated
accordingly. [1:1] = [UPHY_LANE_MAP_VALID] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : Informs CAR/HSIO that contents in CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_LANE_CFG[HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP] are not valid. value (1’b1) : Informs CAR/HSIO that contents in HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP are valid. HSIO has a per-lane controller selection register. Although bits in HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP are in the same register and hence, can be modified synchronously, as they are separate wires, if CAR desires an atomic indication, ACTIVATE_LANE_SEL can be used for it. For example, to switch to lanes simultaneously, bits of HSSTP_TO_UPHY_LANE_MAP can be individually AND-ed at target with corresponding select signals from HSIO and ACTIVATE_LANE_SEL to indicate readiness to switch the lane to HSSTP. [2:2] = [UPHY_LANE_CTL_VALID] = 1’b0 (default) This is an optional signal.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
value (1’b0) : indicates to HSIO that contents of CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL* are invalid value (1’b1) : indicates to HSIO that contents of CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL* are valid
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_STREAM_CTL
CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_STREAM_CTL is protected by an independent SCR. CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_STREAM_CTL is on L2warm reset (csite_sysreset_rstn). [0:0] = [ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING] = 1’b0 (default)
- Value(1’b0) = Mask ATREADY output from HSSTP to CSITE and ATVALID output from CSITE to
HSSTP to ‘0’. Also mask AFREADY input to HSSTP to ‘1’.
- Value(1’b1) = Do not mask ATVALID and AFREADY inputs to HSSTP and ATREADY output from
HSSTP to CSITE. Used to gate traffic to HSSTP until HSSTP is ready to accept traffic post an L2 reset or a SC7- debug exit. Gives opportunity to program registers before traffic starts to stream into HSSTP during these events to prevent any trace, retained in ETF across the reset, from spilling on an unconfigured TPIU. In all other cases (i.e., upon L0/L1 reset or normal/non-debug SC7 exit), HSSTP can be configured before arming the upstream trace components to start streaming trace. Note: In addition to its reset and MMIO writes, ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING is also set/cleared upon assertion (positive edge) of DLY_TRIG0 based on AITS_CLR and AITS_SET. [1:1] = [AITS_CLR] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : DLY_TRIG0 does not affect ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING when
- ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING==1
value (1’b1) : if ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING==1, then positive edge on DLY_TRIG0 clears
- ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING=0
[2:2] = [AITS_SET] = 1’b0 (default) value (1’b0) : DLY_TRIG0 does not affect ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING when
- ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING==0
value (1’b1) : if ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING==0, then positive edge on DLY_TRIG0 sets
- ALLOW_IO_TRACE_STREAMING=1
- CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_INTERRUPT
CORESIGHT_CFG_HSSTP_INTERRUPT is protected by an independent SCR. [0:0] = [INT_0] = 1’b0 (default)

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
The output of this bit is AND-ed with global_dbgen and the AND-ed signal drives trigger input to CTI1, LIC and BPMP-VIC. It is not cleared by CTITRIGINACK from the CTI1. It needs to be cleared via an MMIO write to it.
- Debugger uses it to interrupt BPMP. Upon this interrupt, BPMPFW’s UPHY driver programs the
UPHY’s *_CFG regs for switching them to HSSTP mode. [15:1] = [MSG_0] = 15’b0 (default) The following table describes the different values for MSG_0[14:0]. “Source” is the entity that posts this message.
- Source
- MSG_0 [3:0]
- MSG_PID
[3:0]
- MSG_0 [7:4]
- MSG_SID
[3:0]
- MSG_0 [14:8]
- MSG_DATA [6:0]
- Details/Comments
- Debugger
(INT_0=1) 0x1 0x1
- MSG_DATA[1:0] =Maximum
lane speed debugger desires. b’00=2.5GHz b’01=5GHz b’10=10GHz b’11=RSVD
- MSG_DATA[2:2] =Maximum
lanes debugger can support b’0=single-lane b’1=dual-lane
- Debugger notifies its desired
frequency and number of lanes to BPMPFW.
- BPMP
(INT_0=0) 0xA 0x1
- MSG_DATA[1:0]
=Recommended lane speed b’00=2.5GHz b’01=5GHz b’10=10GHz b’11=RSVD
- MSG_DATA[2:2]
=Recommended number of lanes b’0=single-lane b’1=dual-lane
- BPMPFW notifies SOC
capabilities best suited for debugger. For example: 1. If the debugger requests 5GHz and the SoC supports 10GHz or 2.5GHz, then BPMPFW responds with 2.5GHz. 2. If the debugger requests dual- lane but the SoC supports single-lane, then BPMPFW responds with single-lane. If the debugger requests single-lane but the SoC supports dual-lane,
- BPMPFW still responds with
single-lane. Only if the debugger requests and the SoC supports dual-lane, BPMPFW responds with dual-lane.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Source
- MSG_0 [3:0]
- MSG_PID
[3:0]
- MSG_0 [7:4]
- MSG_SID
[3:0]
- MSG_0 [14:8]
- MSG_DATA [6:0]
- Details/Comments
- Debugger
(INT_0=1) 0x1 0x2
- MSG_DATA[1:0] =Maximum
lane speed debugger desires in light of SoC capabilities suggested by BPMPFW. b’00=2.5GHz b’01=5GHz b’10=10GHz b’11=RSVD
- MSG_DATA[2:2] =Maximum
lanes debugger desires in light of SoC capabilities suggested by BPMPFW b’0=single-lane b’1=dual-lane
- Debugger notifies BPMPFW to
enable CSITE_CLK, deassert CAR reset to HSSTP. Configure
- HSSTP, UPHY lanes/PLL and
clocks.
- BPMP
(INT_0=0) 0xA 0x2
- MSG_DATA[1:0] =Configured
lane speed b’00=2.5GHz b’01=5GHz b’10=10GHz b’11=RSVD
- MSG_DATA[2:2] =Configured
number of lanes b’0=single-lane b’1=dual-lane
- HSSTP, UPHY lane/PLL and
clocks are configured
- Debugger
(INT_0=1) 0xD 0x1
- MSG_DATA[6:0]=RSVD
- Assert CAR reset to HSSTP
controller.
- BPMP
(INT_0=0) 0xD 0x1
- MSG_DATA[6:0]=RSVD
- CAR reset asserted to HSSTP
controller
- BPMP
(INT_0=0) 0xE 0x1
- MSG_DATA[6:3]=1
- HSSTP_ERROR_IS_DISALBED
- BPMP-FW replies with this error
if the debugger initiates HSSTP handshake when the platform
- BPMP-FW DTB does not have
HSSTP enabled. (same as above) (same as above) (same as above)
- MSG_DATA[6:3]=2
- HSSTP_ERROR_NO_PLL
- BPMP-FW replies with this error
if the debugger initiates HSSTP handshake when the platform
- BPMP-FW DTB does not have a
valid PLL for HSSTP lane 4/5. This is the #1 issue.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
- Source
- MSG_0 [3:0]
- MSG_PID
[3:0]
- MSG_0 [7:4]
- MSG_SID
[3:0]
- MSG_0 [14:8]
- MSG_DATA [6:0]
- Details/Comments
(same as above) (same as above) (same as above)
- MSG_DATA[6:3]=3
- HSSTP_ERROR_INVALID_PARAM
- ETER
- BPMP-FW replies with this error
if the debugger initiates HSSTP handshake with invalid parameter, for example, max_speed=3, invalid pid/sid. (same as above) (same as above) (same as above)
- MSG_DATA[6:3]=4
- HSSTP_ERRPR_FAILED_TO_ENAB
- LE
- BPMP-FW replies with this error
if BPMP-FW is not able to enable HSSTP. Possible reasons are: failed to enable CSITE clock, failed to de-assert HSSTP reset, failed to bring PLL to SEQ_ON state. (same as above) (same as above) (same as above)
- MSG_DATA[6:3]=5
- HSSTP_ERRPR_ALREADY_ENABL
- ED
- BPMP-FW replies with this error
if the debugger initiates a new handshake after HSSTP has been successfully enabled.
- BPMP
(INT_0=0) 0xE 0x2
- MSG_DATA[6:0]=RSVD
- Security error
The following registers help drive the control interface to NV’s UPHY brick.
- NV UPHY Lane Related Registers
CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL0_* registers interface with PEX (also known as HSIO) UPHY Lane-0 control interface CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL1_* registers interface with PEX (also known as HSIO) UPHY Lane-1 control interface CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL2_* registers interface with PEX (also known as HSIO) UPHY Lane-4 control interface CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL3_* registers interface with PEX (also known as HSIO) UPHY Lane-5 control interface The registers corresponding to each lane are defined adjacent/consecutively. All registers are aligned at 4-byte boundary. The set of registers belonging to a lane are aligned at 64B boundary.

- Design for Debugging (DFD)
The *_OVRD fields are not expected to be driven by individual controllers. They are always driven from corresponding bits in aruphy_lane.h.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL*_AUX_CTL_* registers are protected using a common SCR dedicated for
them.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL*_MISC_CTL_* registers are protected using a common SCR dedicated for
them.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL*_DYN_CTL_* registers are protected using a common SCR dedicated for
them.
- CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL{0,1,2,3}_AUX_CTL_1
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- Corresponding UPHY Lane Signal
- Comments
- RW
0x0
- AUX_TX_RDET_CLK_EN
- Enables transmitter clock
(AUX_TX_RDET_CLK) to be used during aux receive detect.
- RW
0x0
- AUX_TX_RDET_EN
- AUX_TX_RDET_EN
- RW
0x0
- AUX_TX_TERM_EN
- AUX_TX_TERM_EN
- RW
0x1
- AUX_TX_IDDQ
- AUX_TX_IDDQ
- CORESIGHT_CFG_NVUL{0,1,2,3}_MISC_CTL_1
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- Corresponding UPHY
- Signal
- Comments

