# 9.12.1 Overview

The Hardware Performance Monitor is useful for performance monitoring. Key features include:
- Periodic sampling, in the range 1 Hz to 1 MHz, of performance counters without CPU polling
or high CPU overhead. Uniform approach to capture SoC IP performance metrics for SoC clients. A programmable approach to capturing performance events.
- GPU performance monitors support a variety of modes for capturing performance
statistics. Ability to capture SoC, CPU, and GPU bandwidth utilization in a single pass. Provides a performance debug platform for graphics and visualization software developers.
- The SoC has a fully separate performance monitor subsystem from the hardware performance
monitor (HWPM) subsystem of the GPU. This includes a separate programming interface and

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
separate record streaming path to memory. Detailed information on the system level diagram of the HWPM subsystem can be found in the System Block Diagram section below. Available performance monitoring systems include:
- GPU HWPMs
- Profiling of GPU performance metrics
-
- Both period and range-based profiling
- Record streaming to memory and register polling support
- Context save/restore support
- SOC HWPMs
- Profiling of SoC IP and memory subsystem metrics
- Record streaming to memory and register polling support
- No context save/restore support
- MC stats
- Counters to capture bandwidth statistics
- Register polling support only
- Client and address filtering
The following IP blocks are affected by the features described in this chapter:
- HWPM blocks
- PERFMUX, PERFMON, HUB, ROUTER, PMA
- VI
- ISP
- VIC
- OFA
- PVA
- NVDLA
- MGBE
- PCIe
- SCF
- NVENC
- NVDEC
- DISPLAY
- MSS
The following software stacks are affected by features described in this chapter:
- SoC HWPM driver
- DEVTOOLS: product level performance monitor toolset
- Hardware infrastructure tools: Internal performance monitor toolset

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
- BPMP driver
- Table 9.92 Glossary
- Abbreviation/Term
- Definition
- APB
- Advanced Peripheral Bus
- CBB
- Control Backbone
- DLA
- Deep Learning Accelerator
- GPU
- Graphics Processing Unit
- PERFMON
- Performance Monitor (unit)
- HWPM
- Hardware Performance Monitor (full path)
- PMA
- Performance Monitor Accumulator
- PVA
- Programmable Vision Accelerator
- RPG
- Remote Perfmon (performance monitor) Group
- VPM
- Virtual Performance Monitor
- VM
- Virtual Machine
#### 9.12.1.1 System Block Diagram
- The HWPM path includes a performance mux (PERFMUX) that funnels the performance monitoring
events out of the SoC IP, a performance monitor (PERFMON) used for counting the selected output events, HUBs that funnel performance monitor count outputs for a given local group of
- PERFMONs, a SYS ROUTER that captures results from all the HUBs and, finally a performance
monitor accumulator (PMA). The figure below illustrates the HWPM paths in both the SoC and the GPU. A local PERFMON cluster and HUB is instanced as a single block called a remote perfmon group (RPG). Ideally, each PERFMON runs on the same clock as that used to generate the event.
- However, HWPMs do allow for asynchronous event capture. For this, events must be generated
from a clock of equal or lower frequency to the PERFMON clock. The clock used to capture and forward RPG outputs to SYS ROUTER and PMA is common across all SoC IPs.

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
**Figure 9.91 HWPM Block Diagram**
- Programming of the SoC HWPM path is performed by a common SoC HWPM driver. HWPM
registers exist outside of the IP. Enables and selects for PERFMUXs are captured in the IP using local IP registers. A separate aperture exists for programming the RPG PERFMONs. Because the
- HWPM design originates from GPU, the programming interface for PERFMON blocks is PRI. Each
RPG instances an APB2PRI shim to allow the RPG to connect to the SoC control backbone (CBB). Note there is no change to programming of GPU HWPM path from previous generations.
##### 9.12.1.1.1 PERFMON Record Streaming
The ability to stream performance metrics through a side channel path while the application is running provides minimally invasive techniques for gathering performance statistics. SoC and GPU
- HWPM subsystems allow for PERFMON record streaming. Snapshots of PERFMON records can be
timer based (frequency-based profiling) or event based (range-based profiling). Frequency-based profiling relies on a programmable count down value. After the timer reaches zero, all PERFMON records are snapped and streamed to memory. Range-based profiling relies on engine triggers from IPs containing PERFMONs to snap and stream all PERFMONs in the SoC to memory. Profiling tools use these triggers to denote start and stop of a given engine context. Accurate performance information is gained by isolating the engine context.

- Hardware Performance Monitor (HWPM)
- Records streamed from PERFMONs can be gathered from 16 or 32-bit counters. 32-byte records
are streamed out from each PERFMON once it is triggered. Events are captured at the speed of the IP clock driving the event and can be sent back-to-back. The figure below and the IPs Utilizing HWPMs section provide more details on the HWPM record streaming path and IP PERFMON count to help understand performance metric capture bandwidth implications based on capture granularity.
**Figure 9.92 Record Streaming Path**
Bandwidth of the capture stream is application dependent. An example of PERFMON record stream bandwidth is provided below:
- PERFMONs are set to Mode C (using 16-bit counters)
- Counter threshold = 0xF000 (~60,000)
- Maximum IP event clock = 1.2GHz

