# 9.13.2 AON Cluster Functional Description

@{Key=9.13.2; Title=AON Cluster Functional Description; Body=#### 9.13.2.1 Cortex-R5 Processor
The Cortex-R5 processor supports the following features:
- ARMv7-R ISA
- Integrated instruction and data caches
- TCM interface for local SRAM
- Vectored interrupt support
64-bit AXI master interface for DRAM requests 32-bit AXI master interface for MMIO requests 32-bit AHB master interface for AVIC access
- AXI slave interface for DMA access to the local SRAM
#### 9.13.2.2 Processor Configuration
The AON Cluster Cortex-R5 is implemented with the following features: 32 KB instruction cache 32 KB data cache 256 KB of SRAM attached to TCMB as two banks of 128 KB SRAM
- TCMA base address set to 0
- Init low vectors
- Processor version r1p3
- Floating-Point Unit extensions including double-precision capability
#### 9.13.2.3 Interrupt Controller
The Cortex-R5 does not have an integrated interrupt controller. A pair of ARM PL192 vectored interrupt controllers on the local bus serve as the interrupt controller for the AON Cortex-R5. The SoC implements PL192 version r0p0.
#### 9.13.2.4 Processor and Interrupt Controller Documentation
Detailed documentation for the Cortex-R5 Processor and the PL192 Interrupt Controller are readily available from ARM, and may be downloaded from the ARM web site. A good starting point is these documents:

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Document DDI 0273A
This TRM assumes access to these documents, and does not reproduce information from them.
#### 9.13.2.5 Timers
The Cortex-R5 does not have any integrated timers. Timers for the AON Cluster are provided by a separate timer block in the AON Cluster.
#### 9.13.2.6 TCM Interface
- Cortex-R5 provides two tightly coupled memory ports. These ports, named ATCM and BTCM are
meant to provide low latency access to the Cortex-R5 processor. The ATCM hosts the EVP interface (see below) and the BTCM hosts a 256 KB RAM.
**Figure 9.97 Cortex-R5 TCM interface**
The following pin and build configurations define the ATCM and BTCM configurations.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
#### 9.13.2.7 ATCM Interface
The Cortex-R5 ATCM interface hosts the Exception Vector Table module. The EVP is wrapped in the ATCM Wrapper that provides the ATCM interface to Cortex-R5.
##### 9.13.2.7.1 Exception Vector Pointers (EVP)
When Cortex-R5 takes an exception (including the reset exception), processor execution is forced to an address that corresponds to the type of exception. These addresses are called the exception vectors. By default, the exception vectors are eight consecutive word-aligned memory addresses, starting at an exception base address (which is reset default to 0x0000_0000 for the AON Cortex- R5 since VINITHI is tied to 0). The EVP module is implemented through a set of 16 registers starting at address 0x0. The table below shows the default organization of the EVP coming out of reset. The programmability of EVP allows the processor to jump to an arbitrary address space in the entire memory space that is accessible to the AON Cortex-R5.
- Table 9.98 EVP Register Table
- Offset
- Data
- Description
0x00
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Reset vector. According to the ARM Architecture
manual, the PC reads an address equals current instruction + 8. 0x04
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Undefined exception
0x08
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- SWI (also known as SVC) exception
0x0C
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Prefetch abort
0x10
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Data abort
0x14
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Reserved
0x18
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- IRQ
0x1C
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- FIQ
0x20
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM
- TCMB Base Address
0x24
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 4
0x28
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 8
0x2C
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 12
0x30
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 16
0x34
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 20
0x38
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 24

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Offset
- Data
- Description
0x3C
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 30
The EVP table above assumes that the TCMB starts at address NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM. The redirection of exception vectors enables BPMP to execute an ISR handler in the entire memory space accessible by it. The following steps are performed to handle EVP requests: 1. 2. The Cortex-R5 issues a read for exception vector address (@0x0000_00XX). EVP decodes exception vector aperture, and generates read-response. a. Returns LD PC, [PC + 0x18] instruction as return data. 3. This results in PC getting loaded with pointer to exception vector. Notes: 1. Cortex-R5 additionally supports vectored exception handling specifically for IRQ interrupts.
- This is supported in conjunction with the PL192 VIC interrupt controller. When an IRQ
exception is triggered by the VIC, it can optionally send out a pointer to the interrupt handler to service that particular interrupt. In case of vectored interrupts through VIC, the EVP table is not referenced by the Cortex-R5.
- EVP in earlier chips supported vectorization of interrupts. This is deprecated since the
required vectorization support is already provided through VIC interface.
- EVP reset is decoupled from the Cortex-R5 CPU reset. This enables the Cortex-R5 to be
independently reset without affecting the content of EVP registers. 2. 3.
#### 9.13.2.8 Error Checking and Signaling
When access is not allowed by the ATCM interface, it signals an error. When bit[0] of the Auxiliary Control Register (ACTLR.ATCMECEN) is set to 1, the error triggers an undefined exception on Cortex-R5 accesses or AXI slave error on AXI slave requests by asserting the ATCERROR. ATCERROR is asserted when any of the following happens:
- ATCADDR address does not decode into the address space implemented within the ATCM
wrapper. Whenever write access is made from the ARM ATCM interface to the ATCM.
- ATCLATEERROR is not used to trigger an error since the ATCLATEERROR response is
discarded by the AXI slave interface.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
#### 9.13.2.9 BTCM Interface
BTCM hosts the Cortex-R5 tightly coupled 256 KB RAM. BTCM is split internally into two ports,
- B0TCM and B1TCM. The address range for the BTCM is defined in the
NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM define in the global AMAP. The BTCM has two ports for two reasons:
- One can be used by the processor and the other by the AON DMA. Cortex-R5 can work on
one bank of the BTCM while AON DMA can page in data/code to/from the other.
- If the code and data space can be separated between B0TCM and B1TCM, then instruction
and data accesses from Cortex-R5 can be done independently. 1. 2.
#### 9.13.2.10 BTCM RAM Configuration
The 128 KB of RAM on each BTCM channel is constructed of eight banks of 16 KB RAM. The BTCM
- RAM banks are logically configured into eight 32 KB power-gating groups. Since the BTCM
interface is operating in interleaved mode one bank from B0TCM and one bank from B1TCM are in each power-gating group. Bank 0 starts at the bottom 32 KB of the BTCM address space.
#### 9.13.2.11 Error Checking and Signaling
Accesses to the BTCM signal an error when the particular access isn't allowed by BTCM interface.
- When bit 1 and bit 2 of the Auxiliary Control Register (ACTLR.B0TCMECEN and
ACTLR.B1TCMECEN) are set to 1, the error triggers an undefined exception on Cortex-R5 accesses or AXI slave error on AXI slave requests by asserting the B0TCERROR or B1TCERROR. An error is asserted when any of the following occurs:
- The SD, SLP, or DSLP port for a TCM RAM bank is asserted and the TCM RAM bank is
accessed.
#### 9.13.2.12 Interrupts
The interrupt sources from/to the SPE (Cortex-R5) in the AON block are comprised of the following components: {Vector/Scalar} interrupts are driven through a pair of daisy-chained ARM Vectored Interrupt
- Controllers (AVIC)
1.
- Specific peripherals such as TKE, DMA, etc., (which are exclusively owned by the SPE) have
their interrupts connected to AVIC.
- Other I/O peripherals which can be owned by the SPE and other system masters, such as
the CCPLEX, send their interrupts to AVIC as well as to top level LIC, depending on the usage model software can mask the interrupts in unused path.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
2. Interrupts from the Legacy Interrupt Controller (LIC) that feed into the AVIC.
- There are four such interrupts coming from LIC. There are a few peripherals and interrupt
sources connected to LIC can be managed by the SPE by properly enabling the routing to AON cluster channel in LIC and finally routing the aggregated interrupt to AVIC. 3.
- AON Interrupts to other Clusters
There are a few peripherals that are controlled by other clusters though they are instanced in the AON cluster (e.g., CAN, UART). For example, specific instances of the UART have usage models where they are controlled by the Safety Cluster Engine (SCE) or the Boot and
- Power Management Processor (BPMP). These peripherals interrupt are connected to the
- AON cluster and to the other clusters apart from LIC; they are fanned out to LIC and other
respective clusters. 4.
- Interrupts to AON from SoC Domain Peripherals
- UART6 and UART8 from the SoC domain send interrupts to AON cluster. These interfaces
could be repurposed as Debug UART in closed system debug; interrupts from these UART instances are routed to AVIC so that the Debug UART driver running in SPE (which various debug routines interact) is getting the correct interrupt. 5.
- Secure Interrupts Routing
- Secure interrupts are generally routed to LIC and subsequently handled by the
TrustZone Interrupt handler. Secure Interrupt is also routed as a fault to the HSM via error loggers in the AON cluster NoC.
- There are cases where the secure interrupt could be overloaded with normal functional
scenarios (e.g., APB slave indicates a security access violation, such as SCR, or other violations such as an address hole via SLAVE_ERR). If the secure interrupt become overloaded, the AON Fabric asserts the Secure Interrupt to be resolved by the TrustZone software.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
**Figure 9.98 Interrupt Structure**
Like any other APB peripherals in AON, AVIC access and configuration spaces are accessed via
- MMIO path. The AVIC port of Cortex-R5 interfaces to the PL192 and enables the following
functions in hardware to minimize software overhead of servicing the interrupt. 1. 2. 3. Determine from the interrupt controller which interrupt source is requesting service. Determine where the service routine for that interrupt source is loaded.
- Masks that interrupt source, before re-enabling processor interrupts to permit another
interrupt to be taken. Interrupt connections to PL192 include: 1.
- Local interrupts originating from within the AON cluster are connected to PL192 interrupt
inputs; these are vectored (i.e., mapped to IRQ for low interrupt latency). Four external interrupts are connected from the LIC. Each interrupt can be an aggregation of one or more interrupts. Interrupts from selective SoC peripherals like UARTs and Doorbell units. 2. 3.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- AON Fabric
The AON cluster uses a single FlexNoC IP for routing access to DRAM via DBB and MMIO requests (via CBB to SoC peripherals and peripherals in AON).
##### 9.13.2.12.1 AON Cluster Fabric
The AON cluster fabric uses various Software entities to access various IP’s register space. The AON Cluster fabric supports: MMIO requests from various AON initiators to SoC peripherals (via CBB), and to peripherals in AON. MMIO requests from various CBB initiators to IPs in the AON cluster.
- AON DMA accesses to DRAM, AON TCMs, and various MMIO requests to IPs in AON and SoC
domains. 1. 2. 3.
- AON Cluster Fabric Topology
The AON cluster fabric supports the initiators mentioned below as per the protocol and data widths. Each of the below initiator is connected to an initiator node inside the cluster fabric.
- Initiator
- Protocol
- Data-Width
- Power Domain of the
initiator node
- Comments
- SPE R5’s Periphery
port
- AXIv3
32-bit
- AOPG
- SPE R5 accesses various IP’s (both
in SOC and AON) register configuration space through this port
- AON DMA Periphery
port
- AXIv3
32-bit
- AOPG
- AON DMA accesses various IP’s
especially IO controller’s register configuration space through this port
- AON DMA Memory
port
- AXIv4
64-bit
- AOPG
- AON DMA accesses memory and
- AON TCM through this port
- CBB in SOC domain
- AXIv4
32-bit
- AOPG (MV crossing from
- SOC to AOPG domain)
- Intermediate initiator on AON
- Cluster fabric, through which
various SoC initiators can access
- AON IP’s register configuration
space. Note that this initiator port does not have physical path to Cortex-R5 AXI Target. AON Cluster Fabric supports the targets mentioned in the below table as per the protocol and data widths. Each of the below target is connected to a target node inside the Cluster Fabric.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Target
- Protocol
- Data-Width
- Power domain of
the target node
- Comments
- AST1
- AXIv3
64-bit
- AONPG
- AON DMA memory accesses go
through this target.
- AST0/1 has certain security critical
configuration along with address translation setup for Cortex-R5 and
- DMA’s memory accesses. ASTs are
placed in AONPG domain to retain all such configuration for any latency critical use cases where SPE needs early access to DRAM/MC during the warm boot.
- CBB Intermediate
target
- AXIv4
32-bit
- AOPG
- AON Initiator’s MMIO requests to SoC
domain go through this target.
- R5 AXI Target
- AXIv3
32-bit
- AOPG
- AON TCM can be accessed by AON
DMA through this target.
- AXI2APB Target node
- APBv4
32-bit
- AOPG
- All PG-able and Non-PG-able APB
targets are connected to this node.
- All PG-able APB targets connect to
this node via a MDMM, placed in PG domain.
- All NPG-able APB targets connect to
this node via a MDMM, placed in NPG domain.
- Cluster Fabric internal
- APB Targets
- APBv4
32-bit
- AOPG
- Cluster fabric internally hosts APB
targets for configuring firewalls, error loggers, error collator, and error monitors. Target nodes connect to the Initiator nodes via a Junction Box which has the arbiter and routing logic. In addition, cluster fabric implements common firewall and error logger/notifier/collator logic.
- Error Generation and Logging
- Error Monitor
Each Initiator node in the fabric contains an Error Monitor Module. This module can raise an interrupt on the following errors:
- SLVERR/DECODE error
- Power down error
- Firewall error
- Timeout error
- Unsupported access error
- Error Notifier and Interrupt
- The AON Cluster fabric implements one Error Notifier module which collates interrupts from
various Error Monitor blocks in the initiator nodes and generates a single interrupt signal. This

- AON Cluster Functional Description
interrupt is routed to both LIC and SPE-AVIC. In addition, this interrupt is routed as a fault directly to the HSM.
- Error Collator
The AON cluster fabric implements error collators in each partition where the AON Fabric logic exists. Faults from the diagnostics implemented in the fabric logic sitting in each partition are routed to the respective error collators. In AON, since the fabric logic is implemented in both AOPG and AONPG partitions, four faults from AON fabric are routed to HSM (two from each EC i.e., a corrected and uncorrected fault from each error collator).
##### 9.13.2.12.2 Always-On Power Manager (AO-PM or PM)
The block called AO-PM contains registers and state machines which enable the Cortex-R5 and other resources to enter low power states when the Cortex-R5 is idle. Additionally, AO-PM also contains some general configuration registers related to the cluster.
- The AO-PM unit implements the SPE Power States and coordinates with PMC and AO-CAR to
manage the SPE and System Power State transitions. It provides a programming interface to the SPE to manage the cluster's power states. The functionalities of this module include the following: 1.
- SPE Power State Control: Making power state transition decisions according to enabled
power state configurations and triggering entry-exit sequences to/from SPE power states.
- SPE Power State exit management: Monitoring and responding to the processor complex and
DMA engine's activity requests and wake events that trigger SPE Power State exits.
- Clock source management: Sending control signals to AO CAR state machines for controlling
the AO PLL, switching clock sources for the processor complex for the target SPE power state.
- Power-gating: Handshake with PMC to support retention mode for the processor caches,
- TCMs RAMs, and the power gate-able portions of the AO cluster. Handshakes with NOC-PM
to make sure there are no pending transactions before power gating AOPG partition and ensures NOC is ready to accept transactions post PG reset deassertion.
- Power Security: Supports a secure configuration of the mapping of the clocking and power
resources per AO power state. PMC handshake: Handshake with PMC to support interaction of SPE power states with SC7.
- RTC Alarm: Implements an alarm for the SPE to be woken up from Dormant state when the
timers are power-gated. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. This module is not directly responsible for the SoC power states which are controlled by PMC.
##### 9.13.2.12.3 Use Cases for the AO-PM
1. 2. 3.
- Cortex-R5 and TCM Idle based power management
- Dynamic Clock Gating of TCM clocks
- Dynamic Power Gating of Cortex-R5 cluster, if supported

- AON Cluster Functional Description
4. 5. 6. 7.
- Cortex-R5 Clock burst policy (For AON_CPU_NIC_CLK and AON_APB_CLK) on interrupts
- SRAM low power mode controls
- Baseline support for SC7
- Boot support
##### 9.13.2.12.4 SPE Power State Management
At the core of the AO-PM Module is a Power State Transition FSM that controls transitions from SPE ACTIVE to any of the "target" low power states. These states can be SPE_IDLE, SPE_STANDBY, or SPE_DORMANT, either Shallow or Deep. Before the SPE executes WFI/WFE, it programs the power configuration registers in AO-PM to a target state, such that whenever the AO-PM detects WFI/WFE along with nCLKSTOPPED, it can readily transition to one of the targeted states. Primarily, two sets of registers must be programmed: 1. 2. TGT_PWR_STATE register (Programmed by SPE-FW).
- POWER_CFG_MASK registers (Set up by Power Security software). This set overrides the
TGT_PWR_STATE registers. Entry into any of the low-power states is possible by two conditions: 1.
- Functional Trigger from the Cortex-R5: Either nWFIPIPESTOPPED or nWFEPIPESTOPPED is
asserted, along with nCLKSTOPPED asserted.
- Debug trigger: A debug register (DBG_FEATURES_0_FORCE_START) write can also trigger a
specific state machine. This is provided for ASIC debug purposes only. 2. AOPM does not enter into the low power states if the global clock override is set. Exit conditions from low power states are: !WFI/WFE/nCLKSTOPPED
- DMA active (Wake on a transaction on AXI-S port of the Cortex-R5)
- IRQ or FIQ
- LP_EXIT trigger (register write)
- DEBUG TIMEOUT (if stuck in a state longer than timer value)
- RTC alarm
- Wake Interrupt (Tier 0)
- SC7 wake request goes high from PMC (For Tier 1 or Tier 2 wake events)
Some interrupts generated from the Cortex-R5-clusters are not routed to the local VIC but go to the LIC. These are not capable of automatically causing the PM to exit an LP state. The low power

- AON Cluster Functional Description
states lower the cluster clock frequencies and potentially slow down the interrupt service routine running on the external target processor. Such interrupts and their effects are analyzed below. 1. Watchdog_remote interrupt – This is the WDT 3rd expiry interrupt from the local TKE's WDT.
- The handler for the remote WDT wakes up the PM by issuing a software triggered exit
through the LP_EXIT register. For AON, when the expiry occurs in SC7, the 3rd expiry of SPE-
- WDT causes an SC7 exit. This results in the AOPM coming out to an ACTIVE state and then
re-entering a SHALLOW state. In the SHALLOW state, the handler for the WDT accesses the LP_EXIT register and causes a wake to ACTIVE. In order to prevent the PM from going back to a low power state, the WFI is masked by the handler inside the PM. In general, the 1st or 2nd expiry of the WDT causes an exit from the LP state – hence the 3rd expiry is not expected to occur in an LP state. However, if the 3rd expiry occurs in an LP state (or if the 1st and 2nd expiries are masked) then the handler uses the knobs described above to force the PM to exit to the low power state. HSP_SI_[1|2|3|4] interrupts – An outbound full interrupt is raised when the local processor posts a message to another processor. The local processor may execute WFI after posting the message. The PM does not need to stay in the ACTIVE state. When the target processor consumes the interrupt and clears it, the local processor does not need to move to the
- ACTIVE state. If the target processor requires further communication with the local
processor, it posts another message that causes the HSP_SI_0 interrupt to assert and wake the PM from the ACTIVE state. An outbound empty interrupt is raised when the target processor consumes the message. The interrupt requires the target processor, not the local processor, to wake to the ACTIVE state. APB bridge error and security interrupts – The effect of these interrupts not causing an LP (Low Power) state exit is to slow down the interrupt handler routine. 2. 3.
- SPE-IDLE Power State
SPE-Idle is a group of idle states characterized by the following steady state conditions:
- Cortex-R5 in Standby: nWFIPIPESTOPPED or nWFEPIPESTOPPED, and nCLKSTOPPED are
asserted. The states of the L1 caches, ASTs and external paths from the SPE cluster to SoC domain are subject to ULP mode. These are idle and not being used by the Cortex-R5 actively.
- Second level clock gating handles the SPE and TCM clocks. I/O controllers may be clock-
gated by software. DMA is idle. I/O controllers in slave mode may be active and using local buffering but those in master mode are idle. Clocks can be switched to alternative sources including OSC. Switchover to 32 kHz is allowed only when ALLOW_DEEP_I bit of AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_0 is set and the system is in SC7 state. The I/O controller configurations and their clock controls can be in various states depending on use cases.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Entry Configuration
- The TCM is clock gated on assertion of nCLKSTOPPED signal. AO-PM detects this signal to
gate and ungate the TCM clocks.
- The AO PLL may be configured by SPE-FW to be placed in a low power mode like DISABLE/
- IDDQ if the I/O controllers are under S-managed clock-gated state or if their clocks are
configured to be supplied from non-PLL sources like OSC and 32 kHz. When AO PLL is placed in a low power mode, the default clock source is switched to OSC. The switching of the clock source is handled by AO-CAR. AON Rail retention is not enabled in this state. The TCM does not expect to be in retention mode in this shallower idle state.
- BPMP and PMC control whether clocks can be switched to 32 kHz in this state when the
system is in SC7.
- SPE-Standby Power State
The SPE-Standby state is entered when the SPE subsystem has been resident in the SPE-Idle state for a programmable interval of time. SPE-Standby is similar to SPE-Idle except that the TCM and cache SRAMs are placed in a low power mode (RET). The TCMs or the caches cannot be accessed when placed in RET mode. When the RAMs are placed in RET mode, the AO rail can be externally lowered to the level of SRAM retention voltage (expected to be higher than minimum functional logic voltage)
- TCM and Cache RAMs are put in RET mode by the AOPM Standby sequencer when the RAM_RET
bit in the AOPM_TGT_PWR_STATE_0 register is set. Other cluster RAMs are placed in RET mode under software control. Clocks and AO PLL are configured the same way as for SPE-Idle. Before the TCM is placed in retention, access to the TCM controller are blocked by the AO-PM hardware. The AO-PM also resolves race conditions between entering this low power state and an exit trigger like an interrupt showing up during entry. The L1 caches can be placed in retention mode along with the TCMs. The interrupts to the Cortex-R5 are explicitly blocked when caches are placed in retention. Accesses through the AXI-S slave port are blocked by AO-PM hardware too. Exit conditions for this state are identical to SPE-Idle state. The Deep Standby state entry is allowed only if the system is in the SC7 state and the ALLOW_DEEP_S bit in the AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_0 register is set.
- SPE-Dormant Power State
- The SPE wakes up on a CAN wake event to process the CAN message. The hardware architecture
supports a generic partially power-gated state for the AO cluster that can also be entered more aggressively when the sensor functions are enabled in the ULP mode. This power state may also trivially be engaged when sensor functions are statically disabled in the system by configuration or by user intervention. TCMs, Caches and other RAMs in AOPG cluster can be placed in RET mode. SPE’s reset vector must point to the TCM when the processor is taken out of power-gating since the SoC domain is

- AON Cluster Functional Description
powered off during this time. When all the SRAMs in the VDD_RTC power domain are placed in RET mode, the VDD_RTC rail can be lowered to SRAM_VRET. AOPG cluster can be power gated completely. In addition to the low power states of the resources supported in SPE-Idle and SPE-Standby state, the OSC pad can be turned off in this state if the system is in SC7. This requires all clocks to be switched to 32 kHz either in software or in hardware or gated off prior to OSC is turned off. AOPM can enter its Deep Dormant state, only when SoC is in the SC7 state. The PM handshakes with the
- SC7 FSM in the PMC to ensure that the SoC is in SC7 before the PM enters the deep dormant
state. There is a software knob to bypass the second clock switch (the one that switches to 32K and turns off OSC). If the BYPASS_TWO_STEP bit is set, DEEP_DORMANT is entered after PG. (There is no retention wait counter for dormant state.) The RAM_RET and RAIL_RET options are as discussed in the STBY section. The only difference is that even if no RAM_RET is requested, hardware will do RAM_RET, but it will still not override what software has requested. Exit from the SPE-Dormant state is triggered by interrupts (in the shallow state) from sources that are not power-gated and by wake events from sources that are power-gated, including the SC7 Tier 0 wake events. Thus, exit from the SPE-Dormant is automatically included in the SC7 exit sequence.
- Exit Handling Due to SC7 Exit
When AOPM FSMs are in any non-active state, an SC7 exit of the PMC results in an exit condition of AOPM FSMs, and this exit in non-maskable. That is, unlike for other exit causes who have a mask/unmask bit in POWER_CFG_MASK register, the SC7 exit from the PMC results in AOPM exiting from LP states. While an SC7 entry of the PMC gates the entry into deep states only, an SC7 exit causes an exit whether AOPM FSMs are in their shallow or deep flavors. An SC7 exit also gates off further deep state re-entry, unless explicitly reprogrammed to do so by the BPMP before the next SC7 entry. Example: If in a deep state and an SC7 exit happens in the PMC:
- Some deep state -> (SC7 wake) -> Shallow state -> Transitions for exit -> Active -> (LP
condition) -> Go up to Shallow only If in a shallow state and an SC7 exit happens in the PMC: Some shallow state -> (SC7 wake) -> Transition for exit -> Active -> (LP condition) -> go up to
- Shallow only
- Clock Burst on Interrupt
The processor may be busy executing very low horsepower tasks but not be able to suspend all tasks and execute a WFI instruction. The processor may switch its clocks to a slow source like OSC clock. This slow clock affects the latency to a subsequent interrupt. The added latency of

- AON Cluster Functional Description
processing the interrupt signal sequence and the ISR at a slow clock prevents the processor from switching to the slow clock when it is not completely idle but very lazy. AOPM supports switching the processor subsystem clocks to a faster source automatically when an interrupt is triggered. The interrupt specific clock source is used in both active and low power idle states of the processor complex. When the processor is active, the SPE-FW requests the AO-PM to switch aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and aon_apb_clk to pre-programmed values in the AO-CAR. SPE-FW writes to AOPM_PWR_STATE register STATE = ACTIVE_IRQFIQ to raise this request. AO-PM sends a request to AO-CAR using the TGT_ACTIVE_IRQFIQ command index, waits for the AO-CAR to switch the clocks and acknowledge, after which it updates AOPM_PWR_STATUS to STATE = ACTIVE_IRQFIQ to reflect that the software request is completed. SPE-FW switches the clocks back to the TGT_ACTIVE state after servicing the pending interrupts. When SPE-FW switches the clocks back to TGT_ACTIVE state, the AOPM_PWR_STATUS gets updated to STATE = ACTIVE.
- When the processor is idle and the AO-PM has placed the subsystem in one of the low power
states described above, if the exit condition is an interrupt, the AO-PM hardware requests the AOCAR to auto-switch to the faster clock sources if BURST mode is enabled. This feature leverages the index-based request/acknowledge protocol between AOPM and the AO-
- CAR block. BURST_CLK_EN field in AOPM_BURST_CLK_0 register must be set to enable this
feature in ACTIVE state and BURST_LP_EN field of the same register must be set to enable this feature in non-ACTIVE or low power states. If the interrupt to Cortex-R5 is masked inside the PM module using the LP_EXIT_MASK register, then clock bursting is bypassed by the PM hardware upon a wake from nCLKSTOPPED or nWFIPIPESTOPPED de-assertion event.
##### 9.13.2.12.5 AO I/O DPD
AO-PM does not control any DPD control of the AO I/O pads. This is handled inside the PMC.
##### 9.13.2.12.6 SRAM Low Power Mode Management
AO-PM implements a handshake with the PMC in the Standby/Dormant states in order to put the following RAMs in retention mode.
- This interface constitutes a request from the AO-PM and an acknowledgement coming from the
PMC. For the RAMs to be put in retention, the request line is asserted HIGH and low indicates removal of Retention mode.
- In the case of NO_ACK from PMC, PM FSM times out and an interrupt can be raised on
NO_RET_ACK. The following RAMs are controlled by PMC: 1. 2.
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank0
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank1

- AON Cluster Functional Description
3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank2
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank3
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank4
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank5
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank6
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank7
- Cache0
- LCache0
- DCache0
10. 11.
- CAN0
- CAN1
In addition to the hardware handshake, shutdown and retention controls of these Cluster RAMs can be directly controlled by software and those registers lie in the PMC module. Note: CAN RAMs are not controlled by AO-PM hardware sequencer. It is mandatory for SPE-SW to put CAN RAMs in low power mode (RET or SLEEP) if AO-PM is configured to enter the deep- dormant state, as it is illegal to have RAM in functional mode and Logic in a PG-ed state. If RAM_RET == RAIL_RET == 0, then Standby FSM becomes identical to Idle FSM, barring the fact that different CAR target request ids are sent from PM to CAR.
#### 9.13.2.13 AXI Block Support
AOPM provides support via configuration registers to block AXI requests. The following register in AO-PM supports this.
- Register: AOPM_AON_BLOCK_0
Fields:
- AOPM_AON_BLOCK_0_AON2SNIC_REQ: This bit blocks AXI requests on the control fabric to
the SOC. Since AON can be operating when SOC is not powered on, it is used to block the requests going towards SOC.
- AOPM_AON_BLOCK_0_AON2MC_REQ: This bit in AO-PM blocks AXI requests to MC. Since
- AON can be operating when MC is not powered on, it is used to stop the requests going
towards SOC. Additionally, there is a status register to read back status from the AXIBLOCK FSM via a block status [31:0] sideband input to AO-PM.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
#### 9.13.2.14 Interrupts
AO-PM has three interrupts going out.
- Table 9.99 PM Interrupts
- Interrupt Sources
- Pm2vic_intr
- RTC_ALARM
- NO_CAR_ACK
- NO_OSC_ACK
- NO_RET_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE
- Pm2lic_intr
- RTC_ALARM
- NO_CAR_ACK
- NO_OSC_ACK
- NO_RET_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE
- Pm_actmon_intr
- PM Unit Actmon
- RTC_ALARM = When the RTC second/millisecond time matches the programmed value in the
configuration registers, it generates an RTC alarm. The RTC generates an interrupt or generate an exit from low power states. The interrupt handler for the RTA Alarm Wake reprograms the
- AOPM_RTC_ALARM_TIMER and/or AOPM_RTC_ALARM_MSEC_TIMER registers before clearing the
interrupt so that the interrupt does not fire spuriously. BPMP_PM (bpmp_pm2lic_int) and BPMP- PM (bpmp_pm2vic_int) are generated from the same sources, but have a different set of status (pre-mask), Mask, Set, and Clear registers for VIC and for LIC interrupts. Note that SPE should not be interrupted for NO_DVS_ACK. The interrupt to NO_DVS_ACK can be selectively masked off for SPE but enabled for LIC (for BPMP). NO_CAR_ACK = When CAR is requested to change the clock source or assert/de-assert PG resets, but the PM FSM times out waiting for an ACK, this interrupt is raised. The PM FSM cannot assume a good clock or a complete reset sequence, and the BPMP may need to come in and reset the PM and the system to a known good state of clocks.
- NO_OSC_ACK = When PMC has been requested to turn on/off the OSC ACK is obtained, instead
the PM FSM times out waiting for an ACK from the PMC.
- NO_RET_ACK = When PMC has been requested to put RAMs in/out retention mode, but the PM
does not get an ACK, the PM FSM times out waiting for an ACK from the PMC. In this case, PM FSM cannot assume any good state of cluster RAMs (partial sequencing of RAM low power mode is also a possible scenario). Upon narrowing down that the interrupt is due to NO_RET_ACK, software

- AON Cluster Functional Description
can check the corresponding RAM status bits and also the PG controller status register to infer if there is a hang in the PG controller in the PMC.
- NO_NOC_IDLE_ACK = When NOC_PM has been requested to query power disconnect modules/T-
NIUs that there are no pending transactions. If the PM does not get an ACK, the PM FSM timer times out.
- NO_NOC_IDLE = When NOC_PM does not give an IDLE indication for the PM dormant state
machine to move forward, the PM FSM times out.
#### 9.13.2.15 Cortex-R5 Activity Monitor
- The AO-PM has a unit ACTMON. The interrupt from the unit ACTMON is not merged with the PM
interrupt. It is separately routed to the local VIC and to LIC. The PM uses this ACTMON to detect idle periods of the processor complex and monitors key events that the Cortex-R5 exposes on its event bus. The idle state of the Cortex-R5 is not exposed to the event bus. Therefore, the idle signals nCLKSTOPPED, nWFIPIPESTOPPED, and nWFEPIPESTOPPED must be separately exported to detect idle period statistics and use the information for scaling the performance of the Cortex- R5.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
**Figure 9.99 Cortex-R5 Unit ACTMON**
- Outputs from the Cortex-R5 are sampled at the processor clock frequency and a cumulative
counter incremented for every cycle that the unit_active signal is asserted. The cumulative count is compared with a target count. When the cumulative count in processor clock rate reaches the target value, the ACTMON is notified. The EVENTBUS signals hooked up to the ACTMON are indicative of the following events.
- EVENTBUS[5]: Indicates that the instruction is architecturally executed. Asserted on every
cycle when an instruction was architecturally executed by the processor.
- EVENTBUS[16]: Stalls because instruction buffer cannot deliver an instruction. This can
indicate an instruction cache miss. Asserted every cycle where the condition is present.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- EVENTBUS[19]: External memory request. Examples of this are cache refill, non-cacheable
accesses, write-through writes, cache line evictions (write-back).
- EVENTBUS[20]: Stalls because of Load Store Unit (LSU) being busy. The event takes place
each clock cycle where the condition is met. A high incidence of this event indicates the pipeline is often waiting for transactions to complete on the external bus.
#### 9.13.2.16 Programming Model
##### 9.13.2.16.1 AOPM Address Map
- This address space is address decoded within PM into PM_IMPL (the functional PM part), the
PM_ACTMON (of the unit ACTMON), and the rest is reserved.
- Base Address Define
- Value
- Sub-Aperture Address Define
- Value
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_BASE
0xC1F0000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_IMPL_BASE
0xC1F0000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_IMPL_LIMIT
0xC1FFFFF
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_IMPL_SIZE
0x10000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_ACTMON_BASE
0xC200000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_ACTMON_LIMIT
0xC20FFFF
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_ACTMON_SIZE
0x10000
- RESERVED >
0xC210000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_LIMIT
0xC22FFFF
##### 9.13.2.16.2 AON Power States Programming Guidelines
- SPE- IDLE Entry Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex-R5 SW
- Set up AO-PM with power state transition command by writing to AOPM_TGT_PWR _STATE
register.
- STATE == IDLE
- TCM_ACTIVE (implicit for IDLE mode)
Set up AO-CAR with power state transition info by writing to registers described in the Clocks Chapter to set up the clock source to switch to and the power state of the AOPLL. It could be either of these registers:
- TGT_IDLE_SHALLOW
- TGT_IDLE_DEEP
- Cortex-R5 SW
Execute WFI.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- Clock gating Logic
All second level clock gating controls kick in at this stage except the TCM clocks, backbone clocks for DMA, NOC branches that may be actively used by the DMA during this time along with any active I/O clock(s). Software may additionally FLCG I/O clock sources or switch these to OSC or 32K. Software accordingly programs TGT_IDLE before executing WFI so that AO-PM or AO-CAR hardware does not turn the PLL off when any of the I/O controllers are actively using these clock sources.
- AO-DMA
DMA goes idle and gets clock gated at the second level.
- AXI-S
AXI-S port goes idle as DMA and I/O controllers go idle.
- Cortex-R5
- AO-PM
Engage the second level clock gates on TCM clocks.
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to a slower clock.
- AO-CAR
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_IDLE_SHALLOW sources if enabled. Place AO-PLL in
TGT_IDLE_SHALLOW mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == IDLE_SHALLOW and other fields as
per entry sequence.
- AO-PM
Check for AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_TGT_DEEP_IDLE. If not DISABLE-d, enter DEEP_IDLE state.
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_IDLE_DEEP. Place AO-PLL in low power TGT_IDLE_DEEP mode.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_IDLE_SOURCE if enabled. Place AO-PLL in TGT_IDLE mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == IDLE_DEEP. Other fields as per entry sequence.
- SPE-IDLE Exit Sequence
Once an exit condition is triggered:
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex- R5
- Detects interrupt from AVIC or detects request on AXI-S port to come out of Standby mode
- AO-PM
Release TCM clock gates within three cycles of nCLKSTOPPED getting deasserted. Detect exit from the SPE-Idle state and capture the cause for wake up in a status register. If the wake up is due to an SC7 wake event: 1. 2. Re-enable the DEEP_IDLE override in hardware. Optionally raise an interrupt to SPE.
- AO-PM
Take AOPLL out of low-power mode. Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to the mode in which the clocks were running prior to entering this SPE-Idle state.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-CAR
Place AOPLL in TGT_ACTIVE or TGT_ACTIVE_IRQFIQ mode. Switch Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_ACTIVE or TGT_ACTIVE_IRFIQ source. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == ACTIVE or ACTIVE_IRQFIQ.
- SPE-STANDBY Entry Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex- R5 SW
Set up AO-PM with power state transition command by writing to: AOPM_TGT_PWR _STATE register.
- STATE == STANDBY
RAM_RET or RAIL_RET enabled.
- RAM_RET = RAM ret mode
- RAIL_RET = AON rail retention
Set RAM_RET and/or RAIL_RET. Set up AO-CAR with power state transition info for clock sources and AOPLL.
- TGT_STBY_SHALLOW
- TGT_STBY_DEEP
- Cortex- R5 SW
Execute WFI.
- Cortex- R5 HW
- AXI-S port goes idle
- AO-PM
Execute the entry steps for entering SPE-Idle. During these steps, AO-PM requests AO-CAR to use TGT_STBY_SHALLOW commands. SPE-Standby entry is stepped through SPE-Idle. Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register.
- CURRENT_STATE = STBY_SHALLOW_IDLE
Optionally, use the DMA_ACTIVE (MC-side) indicator from the SPE-DMA to infer idleness.
- AO-PM
Block TCM accesses from AXI-S port upon expiry of the retention entry delay timer.
- AO-PM
Block interrupts from reaching the Cortex-R5 from VIC.
- AO-PM
Check if RAM_RET is enabled. Handshakes with PMC.
- PMC
Completes RAM retention sequencing and ACKs back to PM.
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register with STATE == STBY_SHALLOW.
- AO-PM
Check for AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_TGT_DEEP_STANDBY. If DISABLE-d, enter DEEP_STANDBY state.
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_STBY source. Place AO-PLL in low power mode TGT_STBY.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_STBY if enabled. Switch non Cortex-R5 clocks to OSC if they are sourced from AO-PLL. Place AO-PLL in TGT_STBY mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == STANDBY_DEEP. Other fields as per entry sequence.
- SPE-STANDBY Exit Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex- R5
Detects interrupt from AVIC or detects request on AXI-S port to come out of Standby mode.
- AO-PM
Release TCM clock gates within three cycles of nCLKSTOPPED getting deasserted. Detect exit from SPE-Standby state and capture the cause for wake-up in a status register.
- If the exit condition is due to an SC7 wake request from PMC
1. 2. Re-enable DEEP_STANDBY override in hardware. Optionally raise an interrupt to SPE. Before taking the rail out of retention, aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and aon_apb_clk clocks should be switched back to at least the OSC clock if they were running off 32 kHz. This is to not incur extra latency on the exit path by operating the logic that controls rail voltage at a very slow clock.
- AO-PM
- Switch aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and aon_apb_clk back to OSC and wait for acknowledgement
from AO-CAR.
- AO-CAR
Switch AOPLL and Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_STBY_SHALLOW. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
- Handshake with PMC to take TCMs and caches out of retention mode
- PMC
- Brings RAMs out of retention modes
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks and AOPLL back to their ACTIVE state sources. This step must wait for RAIL_RET exit to complete. AO-PM implements the rail retention exit timer.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks and AOPLL to TGT_ACTIVE or TGT_ACTIVE_IRQFIQ mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Upon completion of RAIL_RET exit, RAM_RET exit requests, unblock TCM accesses on AXI-S path and unblock interrupts. Do not wait for clocks and AOPLL to switch to TGT_ACTIVE mode.
- AO-PM
Upon completion of RAIL_RET exit, RAM_RET exit requests, unblock interrupt. Do not wait for clocks and AOPLL to switch to TGT_ACTIVE mode.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register
Set CURRENT_STATE == ACTIVE or ACTIVE_IRQFIQ.
- SPE-DORMANT Entry Sequence

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex-R5 SW
Prepare I/O controllers for power-gating mode. For each I/O controller: 1. 2. 3. 4. Execute context save operations after the controller is in idle state. Clock gate the controller. Assert reset to the controller. Switch I/O controller clocks to 32 kHz. Put the CAN message RAMs into SLEEP mode. Flush and disable the L1 caches and place them in SLEEP mode.
- Cortex-R5 SW
- Set up AO-PM with power state transition command by writing to AOPM_TGT_PWR _STATE
register.
- STATE == DORMANT
RAM_RET and/or RAIL_RET is enabled. Set up AO-CAR with power state transition info by writing to registers described in Clocks Chapter
- TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW (should be no slower than OSC)
- TGT_DORMANT (expected to be 32 kHz)
(Can optionally set up the Rail retention Control Mode in the PMC.)
- Cortex-R5 SW
- Execute WFI
- Cortex-R5
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW. Place AO-PLL in low power mode.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW if enabled. Place AO-PLL in TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Block accesses at the AXI-S interface. This prevents TCM accesses when the TCM is in retention. Block interrupts at the output of the AVIC. This prevents Cortex-R5 from being woken up when TCM and caches are held in retention.
- AO-PM
Put RAMs in RET mode by implementing handshake with the PMC.
- PMC
- Upon receiving request from AO-PM, the PMC PG Controller puts the AOPG RAMs in RET mode
and sends an ACK to AO-PM.
- Before switching the AO-PM clock itself to 32 kHz, the reset and PG sequence, OSC control
sequence must be completed. AO-PM first waits for the PMC to go into SC7, executes the below sequences handshaking with PMC, and then switches the clocks to 32 kHz.
- AO-PM
Wait for PMC to indicate that SC7 entry is completed.
- PMC
De-assert SC7 commit indication once SC7 entry is completed and there is no pending wake event detected for SC7 exit. Wait for AO-PM to deassert AOPM acknowledgement before responding to a subsequent SC7 action. The rest of the Dormant state entry sequence holds off SC7 wake events.
- AO-PM
Hold off PMC from exiting SC7.
- AOPM
AO-PM sends a request to NOC PM to ensure there are no outstanding transactions in NoC.
- AON-NOC
Handshakes with T-NIUs in NOC to ensure no outstanding transactions, and sends an ack back to the PM.
- AON-NOC
Handshakes with power disconnect modules in NoC and sends a second ACK to the PM.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
- Once idle is received from NoC, PM sequences the module resets and module clock enables in
preparation for power-gating AOPG domain. The modules that are reset in Hardware are
- Cortex-R5 resets (nSYSPORESET, PRESETDBG, DBGRESET and nRESET)
- AON VIC reset
- AON Fabric resets
1. 2. 3.
- The module that can be reset only when the system is in SC7 is the
- AON-NoC resets
1. The AO-PM waits for the PMC to go into SC7 before resetting any module for power-gating.
- AO-CAR
Assert requested resets and gate requested clocks and acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
- Place the Cortex-R5 in HALT mode until the PG exit sequence is completed
- AO-PM
Trigger PG state machine to assert clamp enables and sleep enables for AOPG domain. Wait for completion of PG entry sequence.
- AO-PM
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to a clock source programmed in
TGT_DORMANT_DEEP_CLKSRC and assert AOPLL low power mode.
- AO-CAR
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_DORMANT_CLKSRC if enabled and place AOPLL in low
power mode defined by this configuration. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Request PMC to turn OSC off.
- PMC
Conditionally turn OSC off if enabled by BPMP.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register
- CURRENT_STATE == DORMANT_DEEP
- SPE-DORMANT Exit Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
Detects exit conditions:
- Pending interrupt (in shallow state) from AVIC outputs
- Pending wake events from the Wake Engine
- SC7 indication to exit low power states
- Software triggered exit from external NoC master access (valid only until AOPG is power
gated) 1. 2. 3. 4.
- AO-PM
- Request for OSC pad to be turned on
- PMC
- Turn OSC pad on
- AO-PM
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW (required to be OSC). This
also switches AOPLL to the corresponding mode.
- AO-PM
- Requests PMC PG state machine to get RAMs out of RET mode and AOPG domain out of power
gating.
- If the exit condition is due to an SC7 wake request from PMC, then re-enable DEEP_DORMANT
override in hardware.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
Once AOPG domain is unpower gated, take the modules out of reset that are not under software reset control. This sends a request to the NOC to do power-ungating steps. Then indicates to the SC7 sequencer that AON exit actions are complete. Once the rail is exited from retention voltage, take the TCMs and SRAMs out of RET mode.
- Switch AOPLL back to TGT_ACTIVE and switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to TGT_ACTIVE
sources. Wait for ACK from AO-CAR. Request CAR to deassert resets to all hardware-controlled modules. The modules whose resets are removed in hardware are: 1. 2. 3.
- Cortex-R5 resets (nSYSPORESET, PRESETDBG, DBGRESET and nRESET)
- AON VIC reset
- AON Fabric resets
- AO-CAR
- Switch AOPLL back to TGT_ACTIVE and switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to TGT_ACTIVE
sources. Switch PWR-I2C clock back to TGT_ACTIVE source. Send acknowledgement to AO-PM. Take modules out of reset as requested by AO-PM and send acknowledgement back to AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Once TCMs are out of RET mode, unblock the AXI-S.
- AO-PM
- Once the Cortex-R5 resets are removed and AO-CAR sends an acknowledgement back, and the
SRAMs have also been taken out of retention mode, take the Cortex-R5 out of HALT mode.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register
- CURRENT_STATE == ACTIVE
##### 9.13.2.16.3 AO-CAR
The block called AO-CAR is the CAR parts that reside in the AO voltage domain. AO-CAR provides the clocks and resets to both the AON cluster and the other blocks that are inside the AO voltage domain.AO-CAR
##### 9.13.2.16.4 DMA Controller
The AON cluster DMA controller is an eight-channel implementation of the central DMA controller. The DMA request from the AON Cluster (I2C[2:0], SPI, UART, and DMIC) are connected to the local
- DMA controller. Refer to the General Purpose DMA (GPC-DMA, AON, BPMP, and SCE DMA) chapter
in this TRM for more details.
- Table 9.100 DMA Request Mapping
- Block
- TX DMA Request Port
(DMA_TX [31:0])
- RX DMA Request Port
(DMA_RX [31:0])
- Reserved
- I2C2 (AON_I2C2)
- I2C8 (AON_I2C3)
- SPI2 (AON_SPI1)

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Block
- TX DMA Request Port
(DMA_TX [31:0])
- RX DMA Request Port
(DMA_RX [31:0])
- UARTC (AON UARTC)
- UARTJ (SBSA_UART)
- DMIC
N/A
- GTE
N/A
- UART6 [from SoC for closed system debug]
- UART8 [from SoC for closed system debug]
##### 9.13.2.16.5 Address Translation
The AON Cluster is required to support sending requests to DRAM that indicate to the SMMU if the request requires translation to support a physical carve-out. The SMMU needs to handle requests differently based on if a translation is requested. Since the Cortex-R5 is not capable of indicating if a request requires translation, an Address Space Translation Engine (AST) is used to define the address regions that require translation. The AST is also used to remap the Cortex-R5 and DMA generated address to prevent address space collision for I/O virtual addresses. The AON cluster includes two eight region AST modules. Refer to Address Space Translation (AST) for more information. The AON Cluster is only allowed to bypass SMMU translation when accessing the AON Cluster-only carve-out. If a translation is not requested, the SMMU must bypass the address translation and ensure the address is inside the AON Cluster DRAM region. If a translation is requested, the SMMU performs the translation and ensures that the translated address is not in the AON Cluster region (or any other protected region).
##### 9.13.2.16.6 Shared Mailboxes
- The AON cluster uses shared MMIO mailbox registers to communicate between the Cortex-R5
other processors in the system. The mailbox implementation is defined in the Hardware
- Synchronization Primitives (HSP) chapter of this TRM. The HSP in the AON cluster uses the
following configuration i.e., eight Shared Mail Box Instances (nSM) and four Shared Semaphore (nSS) instances. The number of Shared interrupts i.e., nSI is five. nSM nAS nSS nDB nSI
- Notes
SI[0] is sent to the AVIC. [SI[4:1] are sent to the LIC.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
##### 9.13.2.16.7 Timekeeping Engine (TKE)
Cortex-R5 does not have built-in timers, the timers are integrated into the BPMP subsystem with an external Timekeeping Engine (TKE). The timekeeping unit provides the following functionalities: 1. 2. 3.
- Timers (NV_timers)
- Watchdog (WDT)
- Timestamp counter (TSC) read-back
- Table 9.101 AON TKE Configuration
- Parameter
- Value
- Number of NV_timers (nT)
- Number of watchdogs (nW)
- Interrupt routing
- Disabled
- Number of shared interrupts exposed
- TSC input type (isSerial)
1 (Serial)
**Figure 9.100 AON Timers and WDT Hookup**

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Watchdog Timer
A watchdog timer associated with the AON Cortex-R5 is instanced to monitor Cortex-R5 CPU's health. The watchdog timer has robust restart mechanisms like windowed watchdog and Question and Answer watchdog. AON cluster has a dedicated watchdog timer instanced in the cluster. This enables us to architect the functionality of this timer as per AON clusters specific requirements.
##### 9.13.2.16.8 Timestamping (GTE)
- The AON cluster implements a timestamp module (GTE) for logging the current TSC value when
interrupts or GPIO events occur.
##### 9.13.2.16.9 GTE and DMA
- The AON DMA engine can be used to read from the GTE timestamp FIFO instead of reading the
FIFO using the Cortex-R5. One use case is for the GTE to timestamp the GPIO changes to recover a waveform (for example handling IR receive). To use GTE and DMA in this manner, the following configuration must be used. GTE:
- GTE_GPIO_TECTRL_0[AUTOADVADDR] = 0x3
- GTE_GPIO_TECTRL_0[OCCUPANCYTHRESHOLD] = 0x1
- GTE_GPIO_TECTRL_0[INTERRUPTENABLE] = 0x1
DMA:
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_MMIO_SEQ_0[MMIO_BURST] = 0x7
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_MMIO_SEQ_0[MMIO_ADDR_WRAP] = 0x4
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_SRC_PTR_0[SRC_PTR] = GTE base
address
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_MC_SEQ_0[MC_BURST] = 0x0
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_DMA_BYTE_TRA_0[TRANSFER_COUNT] =
8x4x (number of samples) When using this configuration, the GTE interrupt in the AVIC must be masked.
##### 9.13.2.16.10 I2C
The AON cluster implements two I2C controllers.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Table 9.102 AON I2C Controllers
- Global AMAP Name
- Key Usage Examples
- I2C2
- Camera configuration, Touch control, Sensor interfaces
- I2C8
- Display Aggregator, Sensor Hub Control
##### 9.13.2.16.11 SPI
The AON cluster implements one SPI controller.
- Table 9.103 AON SPI Controller
- AON SPI Instance
- Global AMAP Name
- AON_SPI
- SPI2
##### 9.13.2.16.12 UART
The AON cluster implements two UARTs for primary debug purposes. UARTC is an instance of the standard UART IP, but is implemented as a two pin UART with the CTS and RTS pins tied off so the IP can always send and receive data. UARTJ is the SBSA Compliant UART for debug purposes.
- See Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Table 9.104 AON UARTs
- Global AMAP Name
- UART Type
- Usage Details
- UARTC
2pin
- Primary Two Pin Debug UART. Can also be controlled by
- BPMP and CCPLEX with interrupts routed to BPMP cluster
and LIC. This is the case for flow control signals also, i.e., routed to BPMP Cluster DMA and GPC DMA.
- UART_J
2 pin SBSA Compliant UART.
##### 9.13.2.16.13 PWM
- The AON cluster implements one PWM. The details of the PMW can be found in the Pulse Width
Modulator (PWM) chapter of this document.
##### 9.13.2.16.14 GPIO Controllers
- The AON cluster implements a GPIO controller and pinmux module. Both modules have separate
APB interfaces. There are four interrupts (two functional and two time-stamp interrupts) from the GPIO controller. One functional interrupt and one timestamp interrupt is sent from the GPIO block to the AON interrupt controller. All functional and timestamp interrupts is sent to LIC.

- AON Programming Guidelines
##### 9.13.2.16.15 DMIC
The AON cluster implements a DMIC controller for supporting voice wake functionality. The AON DMIC controller is optimized for low power voice wake requirements.
##### 9.13.2.16.16 CEC
The Consumer Electronic Controller (CEC) unit is added in the AO domain. The motivation for adding the controller to AON is to be able to wake the system up from SC7 only on messages indicated to the SoC and not to wake up on unintended or spurious toggles of the input (wake capable pad).}(@{Key=9.13.2; Title=AON Cluster Functional Description; Body=#### 9.13.2.1 Cortex-R5 Processor
The Cortex-R5 processor supports the following features:
- ARMv7-R ISA
- Integrated instruction and data caches
- TCM interface for local SRAM
- Vectored interrupt support
64-bit AXI master interface for DRAM requests 32-bit AXI master interface for MMIO requests 32-bit AHB master interface for AVIC access
- AXI slave interface for DMA access to the local SRAM
#### 9.13.2.2 Processor Configuration
The AON Cluster Cortex-R5 is implemented with the following features: 32 KB instruction cache 32 KB data cache 256 KB of SRAM attached to TCMB as two banks of 128 KB SRAM
- TCMA base address set to 0
- Init low vectors
- Processor version r1p3
- Floating-Point Unit extensions including double-precision capability
#### 9.13.2.3 Interrupt Controller
The Cortex-R5 does not have an integrated interrupt controller. A pair of ARM PL192 vectored interrupt controllers on the local bus serve as the interrupt controller for the AON Cortex-R5. The SoC implements PL192 version r0p0.
#### 9.13.2.4 Processor and Interrupt Controller Documentation
Detailed documentation for the Cortex-R5 Processor and the PL192 Interrupt Controller are readily available from ARM, and may be downloaded from the ARM web site. A good starting point is these documents:

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Document DDI 0273A
This TRM assumes access to these documents, and does not reproduce information from them.
#### 9.13.2.5 Timers
The Cortex-R5 does not have any integrated timers. Timers for the AON Cluster are provided by a separate timer block in the AON Cluster.
#### 9.13.2.6 TCM Interface
- Cortex-R5 provides two tightly coupled memory ports. These ports, named ATCM and BTCM are
meant to provide low latency access to the Cortex-R5 processor. The ATCM hosts the EVP interface (see below) and the BTCM hosts a 256 KB RAM.
**Figure 9.97 Cortex-R5 TCM interface**
The following pin and build configurations define the ATCM and BTCM configurations.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
#### 9.13.2.7 ATCM Interface
The Cortex-R5 ATCM interface hosts the Exception Vector Table module. The EVP is wrapped in the ATCM Wrapper that provides the ATCM interface to Cortex-R5.
##### 9.13.2.7.1 Exception Vector Pointers (EVP)
When Cortex-R5 takes an exception (including the reset exception), processor execution is forced to an address that corresponds to the type of exception. These addresses are called the exception vectors. By default, the exception vectors are eight consecutive word-aligned memory addresses, starting at an exception base address (which is reset default to 0x0000_0000 for the AON Cortex- R5 since VINITHI is tied to 0). The EVP module is implemented through a set of 16 registers starting at address 0x0. The table below shows the default organization of the EVP coming out of reset. The programmability of EVP allows the processor to jump to an arbitrary address space in the entire memory space that is accessible to the AON Cortex-R5.
- Table 9.98 EVP Register Table
- Offset
- Data
- Description
0x00
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Reset vector. According to the ARM Architecture
manual, the PC reads an address equals current instruction + 8. 0x04
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Undefined exception
0x08
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- SWI (also known as SVC) exception
0x0C
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Prefetch abort
0x10
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Data abort
0x14
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- Reserved
0x18
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- IRQ
0x1C
- LDR, PC, [PC+0x18]
- FIQ
0x20
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM
- TCMB Base Address
0x24
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 4
0x28
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 8
0x2C
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 12
0x30
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 16
0x34
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 20
0x38
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 24

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Offset
- Data
- Description
0x3C
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM + 30
The EVP table above assumes that the TCMB starts at address NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM. The redirection of exception vectors enables BPMP to execute an ISR handler in the entire memory space accessible by it. The following steps are performed to handle EVP requests: 1. 2. The Cortex-R5 issues a read for exception vector address (@0x0000_00XX). EVP decodes exception vector aperture, and generates read-response. a. Returns LD PC, [PC + 0x18] instruction as return data. 3. This results in PC getting loaded with pointer to exception vector. Notes: 1. Cortex-R5 additionally supports vectored exception handling specifically for IRQ interrupts.
- This is supported in conjunction with the PL192 VIC interrupt controller. When an IRQ
exception is triggered by the VIC, it can optionally send out a pointer to the interrupt handler to service that particular interrupt. In case of vectored interrupts through VIC, the EVP table is not referenced by the Cortex-R5.
- EVP in earlier chips supported vectorization of interrupts. This is deprecated since the
required vectorization support is already provided through VIC interface.
- EVP reset is decoupled from the Cortex-R5 CPU reset. This enables the Cortex-R5 to be
independently reset without affecting the content of EVP registers. 2. 3.
#### 9.13.2.8 Error Checking and Signaling
When access is not allowed by the ATCM interface, it signals an error. When bit[0] of the Auxiliary Control Register (ACTLR.ATCMECEN) is set to 1, the error triggers an undefined exception on Cortex-R5 accesses or AXI slave error on AXI slave requests by asserting the ATCERROR. ATCERROR is asserted when any of the following happens:
- ATCADDR address does not decode into the address space implemented within the ATCM
wrapper. Whenever write access is made from the ARM ATCM interface to the ATCM.
- ATCLATEERROR is not used to trigger an error since the ATCLATEERROR response is
discarded by the AXI slave interface.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
#### 9.13.2.9 BTCM Interface
BTCM hosts the Cortex-R5 tightly coupled 256 KB RAM. BTCM is split internally into two ports,
- B0TCM and B1TCM. The address range for the BTCM is defined in the
NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_BTCM define in the global AMAP. The BTCM has two ports for two reasons:
- One can be used by the processor and the other by the AON DMA. Cortex-R5 can work on
one bank of the BTCM while AON DMA can page in data/code to/from the other.
- If the code and data space can be separated between B0TCM and B1TCM, then instruction
and data accesses from Cortex-R5 can be done independently. 1. 2.
#### 9.13.2.10 BTCM RAM Configuration
The 128 KB of RAM on each BTCM channel is constructed of eight banks of 16 KB RAM. The BTCM
- RAM banks are logically configured into eight 32 KB power-gating groups. Since the BTCM
interface is operating in interleaved mode one bank from B0TCM and one bank from B1TCM are in each power-gating group. Bank 0 starts at the bottom 32 KB of the BTCM address space.
#### 9.13.2.11 Error Checking and Signaling
Accesses to the BTCM signal an error when the particular access isn't allowed by BTCM interface.
- When bit 1 and bit 2 of the Auxiliary Control Register (ACTLR.B0TCMECEN and
ACTLR.B1TCMECEN) are set to 1, the error triggers an undefined exception on Cortex-R5 accesses or AXI slave error on AXI slave requests by asserting the B0TCERROR or B1TCERROR. An error is asserted when any of the following occurs:
- The SD, SLP, or DSLP port for a TCM RAM bank is asserted and the TCM RAM bank is
accessed.
#### 9.13.2.12 Interrupts
The interrupt sources from/to the SPE (Cortex-R5) in the AON block are comprised of the following components: {Vector/Scalar} interrupts are driven through a pair of daisy-chained ARM Vectored Interrupt
- Controllers (AVIC)
1.
- Specific peripherals such as TKE, DMA, etc., (which are exclusively owned by the SPE) have
their interrupts connected to AVIC.
- Other I/O peripherals which can be owned by the SPE and other system masters, such as
the CCPLEX, send their interrupts to AVIC as well as to top level LIC, depending on the usage model software can mask the interrupts in unused path.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
2. Interrupts from the Legacy Interrupt Controller (LIC) that feed into the AVIC.
- There are four such interrupts coming from LIC. There are a few peripherals and interrupt
sources connected to LIC can be managed by the SPE by properly enabling the routing to AON cluster channel in LIC and finally routing the aggregated interrupt to AVIC. 3.
- AON Interrupts to other Clusters
There are a few peripherals that are controlled by other clusters though they are instanced in the AON cluster (e.g., CAN, UART). For example, specific instances of the UART have usage models where they are controlled by the Safety Cluster Engine (SCE) or the Boot and
- Power Management Processor (BPMP). These peripherals interrupt are connected to the
- AON cluster and to the other clusters apart from LIC; they are fanned out to LIC and other
respective clusters. 4.
- Interrupts to AON from SoC Domain Peripherals
- UART6 and UART8 from the SoC domain send interrupts to AON cluster. These interfaces
could be repurposed as Debug UART in closed system debug; interrupts from these UART instances are routed to AVIC so that the Debug UART driver running in SPE (which various debug routines interact) is getting the correct interrupt. 5.
- Secure Interrupts Routing
- Secure interrupts are generally routed to LIC and subsequently handled by the
TrustZone Interrupt handler. Secure Interrupt is also routed as a fault to the HSM via error loggers in the AON cluster NoC.
- There are cases where the secure interrupt could be overloaded with normal functional
scenarios (e.g., APB slave indicates a security access violation, such as SCR, or other violations such as an address hole via SLAVE_ERR). If the secure interrupt become overloaded, the AON Fabric asserts the Secure Interrupt to be resolved by the TrustZone software.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
**Figure 9.98 Interrupt Structure**
Like any other APB peripherals in AON, AVIC access and configuration spaces are accessed via
- MMIO path. The AVIC port of Cortex-R5 interfaces to the PL192 and enables the following
functions in hardware to minimize software overhead of servicing the interrupt. 1. 2. 3. Determine from the interrupt controller which interrupt source is requesting service. Determine where the service routine for that interrupt source is loaded.
- Masks that interrupt source, before re-enabling processor interrupts to permit another
interrupt to be taken. Interrupt connections to PL192 include: 1.
- Local interrupts originating from within the AON cluster are connected to PL192 interrupt
inputs; these are vectored (i.e., mapped to IRQ for low interrupt latency). Four external interrupts are connected from the LIC. Each interrupt can be an aggregation of one or more interrupts. Interrupts from selective SoC peripherals like UARTs and Doorbell units. 2. 3.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- AON Fabric
The AON cluster uses a single FlexNoC IP for routing access to DRAM via DBB and MMIO requests (via CBB to SoC peripherals and peripherals in AON).
##### 9.13.2.12.1 AON Cluster Fabric
The AON cluster fabric uses various Software entities to access various IP’s register space. The AON Cluster fabric supports: MMIO requests from various AON initiators to SoC peripherals (via CBB), and to peripherals in AON. MMIO requests from various CBB initiators to IPs in the AON cluster.
- AON DMA accesses to DRAM, AON TCMs, and various MMIO requests to IPs in AON and SoC
domains. 1. 2. 3.
- AON Cluster Fabric Topology
The AON cluster fabric supports the initiators mentioned below as per the protocol and data widths. Each of the below initiator is connected to an initiator node inside the cluster fabric.
- Initiator
- Protocol
- Data-Width
- Power Domain of the
initiator node
- Comments
- SPE R5’s Periphery
port
- AXIv3
32-bit
- AOPG
- SPE R5 accesses various IP’s (both
in SOC and AON) register configuration space through this port
- AON DMA Periphery
port
- AXIv3
32-bit
- AOPG
- AON DMA accesses various IP’s
especially IO controller’s register configuration space through this port
- AON DMA Memory
port
- AXIv4
64-bit
- AOPG
- AON DMA accesses memory and
- AON TCM through this port
- CBB in SOC domain
- AXIv4
32-bit
- AOPG (MV crossing from
- SOC to AOPG domain)
- Intermediate initiator on AON
- Cluster fabric, through which
various SoC initiators can access
- AON IP’s register configuration
space. Note that this initiator port does not have physical path to Cortex-R5 AXI Target. AON Cluster Fabric supports the targets mentioned in the below table as per the protocol and data widths. Each of the below target is connected to a target node inside the Cluster Fabric.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Target
- Protocol
- Data-Width
- Power domain of
the target node
- Comments
- AST1
- AXIv3
64-bit
- AONPG
- AON DMA memory accesses go
through this target.
- AST0/1 has certain security critical
configuration along with address translation setup for Cortex-R5 and
- DMA’s memory accesses. ASTs are
placed in AONPG domain to retain all such configuration for any latency critical use cases where SPE needs early access to DRAM/MC during the warm boot.
- CBB Intermediate
target
- AXIv4
32-bit
- AOPG
- AON Initiator’s MMIO requests to SoC
domain go through this target.
- R5 AXI Target
- AXIv3
32-bit
- AOPG
- AON TCM can be accessed by AON
DMA through this target.
- AXI2APB Target node
- APBv4
32-bit
- AOPG
- All PG-able and Non-PG-able APB
targets are connected to this node.
- All PG-able APB targets connect to
this node via a MDMM, placed in PG domain.
- All NPG-able APB targets connect to
this node via a MDMM, placed in NPG domain.
- Cluster Fabric internal
- APB Targets
- APBv4
32-bit
- AOPG
- Cluster fabric internally hosts APB
targets for configuring firewalls, error loggers, error collator, and error monitors. Target nodes connect to the Initiator nodes via a Junction Box which has the arbiter and routing logic. In addition, cluster fabric implements common firewall and error logger/notifier/collator logic.
- Error Generation and Logging
- Error Monitor
Each Initiator node in the fabric contains an Error Monitor Module. This module can raise an interrupt on the following errors:
- SLVERR/DECODE error
- Power down error
- Firewall error
- Timeout error
- Unsupported access error
- Error Notifier and Interrupt
- The AON Cluster fabric implements one Error Notifier module which collates interrupts from
various Error Monitor blocks in the initiator nodes and generates a single interrupt signal. This

- AON Cluster Functional Description
interrupt is routed to both LIC and SPE-AVIC. In addition, this interrupt is routed as a fault directly to the HSM.
- Error Collator
The AON cluster fabric implements error collators in each partition where the AON Fabric logic exists. Faults from the diagnostics implemented in the fabric logic sitting in each partition are routed to the respective error collators. In AON, since the fabric logic is implemented in both AOPG and AONPG partitions, four faults from AON fabric are routed to HSM (two from each EC i.e., a corrected and uncorrected fault from each error collator).
##### 9.13.2.12.2 Always-On Power Manager (AO-PM or PM)
The block called AO-PM contains registers and state machines which enable the Cortex-R5 and other resources to enter low power states when the Cortex-R5 is idle. Additionally, AO-PM also contains some general configuration registers related to the cluster.
- The AO-PM unit implements the SPE Power States and coordinates with PMC and AO-CAR to
manage the SPE and System Power State transitions. It provides a programming interface to the SPE to manage the cluster's power states. The functionalities of this module include the following: 1.
- SPE Power State Control: Making power state transition decisions according to enabled
power state configurations and triggering entry-exit sequences to/from SPE power states.
- SPE Power State exit management: Monitoring and responding to the processor complex and
DMA engine's activity requests and wake events that trigger SPE Power State exits.
- Clock source management: Sending control signals to AO CAR state machines for controlling
the AO PLL, switching clock sources for the processor complex for the target SPE power state.
- Power-gating: Handshake with PMC to support retention mode for the processor caches,
- TCMs RAMs, and the power gate-able portions of the AO cluster. Handshakes with NOC-PM
to make sure there are no pending transactions before power gating AOPG partition and ensures NOC is ready to accept transactions post PG reset deassertion.
- Power Security: Supports a secure configuration of the mapping of the clocking and power
resources per AO power state. PMC handshake: Handshake with PMC to support interaction of SPE power states with SC7.
- RTC Alarm: Implements an alarm for the SPE to be woken up from Dormant state when the
timers are power-gated. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. This module is not directly responsible for the SoC power states which are controlled by PMC.
##### 9.13.2.12.3 Use Cases for the AO-PM
1. 2. 3.
- Cortex-R5 and TCM Idle based power management
- Dynamic Clock Gating of TCM clocks
- Dynamic Power Gating of Cortex-R5 cluster, if supported

- AON Cluster Functional Description
4. 5. 6. 7.
- Cortex-R5 Clock burst policy (For AON_CPU_NIC_CLK and AON_APB_CLK) on interrupts
- SRAM low power mode controls
- Baseline support for SC7
- Boot support
##### 9.13.2.12.4 SPE Power State Management
At the core of the AO-PM Module is a Power State Transition FSM that controls transitions from SPE ACTIVE to any of the "target" low power states. These states can be SPE_IDLE, SPE_STANDBY, or SPE_DORMANT, either Shallow or Deep. Before the SPE executes WFI/WFE, it programs the power configuration registers in AO-PM to a target state, such that whenever the AO-PM detects WFI/WFE along with nCLKSTOPPED, it can readily transition to one of the targeted states. Primarily, two sets of registers must be programmed: 1. 2. TGT_PWR_STATE register (Programmed by SPE-FW).
- POWER_CFG_MASK registers (Set up by Power Security software). This set overrides the
TGT_PWR_STATE registers. Entry into any of the low-power states is possible by two conditions: 1.
- Functional Trigger from the Cortex-R5: Either nWFIPIPESTOPPED or nWFEPIPESTOPPED is
asserted, along with nCLKSTOPPED asserted.
- Debug trigger: A debug register (DBG_FEATURES_0_FORCE_START) write can also trigger a
specific state machine. This is provided for ASIC debug purposes only. 2. AOPM does not enter into the low power states if the global clock override is set. Exit conditions from low power states are: !WFI/WFE/nCLKSTOPPED
- DMA active (Wake on a transaction on AXI-S port of the Cortex-R5)
- IRQ or FIQ
- LP_EXIT trigger (register write)
- DEBUG TIMEOUT (if stuck in a state longer than timer value)
- RTC alarm
- Wake Interrupt (Tier 0)
- SC7 wake request goes high from PMC (For Tier 1 or Tier 2 wake events)
Some interrupts generated from the Cortex-R5-clusters are not routed to the local VIC but go to the LIC. These are not capable of automatically causing the PM to exit an LP state. The low power

- AON Cluster Functional Description
states lower the cluster clock frequencies and potentially slow down the interrupt service routine running on the external target processor. Such interrupts and their effects are analyzed below. 1. Watchdog_remote interrupt – This is the WDT 3rd expiry interrupt from the local TKE's WDT.
- The handler for the remote WDT wakes up the PM by issuing a software triggered exit
through the LP_EXIT register. For AON, when the expiry occurs in SC7, the 3rd expiry of SPE-
- WDT causes an SC7 exit. This results in the AOPM coming out to an ACTIVE state and then
re-entering a SHALLOW state. In the SHALLOW state, the handler for the WDT accesses the LP_EXIT register and causes a wake to ACTIVE. In order to prevent the PM from going back to a low power state, the WFI is masked by the handler inside the PM. In general, the 1st or 2nd expiry of the WDT causes an exit from the LP state – hence the 3rd expiry is not expected to occur in an LP state. However, if the 3rd expiry occurs in an LP state (or if the 1st and 2nd expiries are masked) then the handler uses the knobs described above to force the PM to exit to the low power state. HSP_SI_[1|2|3|4] interrupts – An outbound full interrupt is raised when the local processor posts a message to another processor. The local processor may execute WFI after posting the message. The PM does not need to stay in the ACTIVE state. When the target processor consumes the interrupt and clears it, the local processor does not need to move to the
- ACTIVE state. If the target processor requires further communication with the local
processor, it posts another message that causes the HSP_SI_0 interrupt to assert and wake the PM from the ACTIVE state. An outbound empty interrupt is raised when the target processor consumes the message. The interrupt requires the target processor, not the local processor, to wake to the ACTIVE state. APB bridge error and security interrupts – The effect of these interrupts not causing an LP (Low Power) state exit is to slow down the interrupt handler routine. 2. 3.
- SPE-IDLE Power State
SPE-Idle is a group of idle states characterized by the following steady state conditions:
- Cortex-R5 in Standby: nWFIPIPESTOPPED or nWFEPIPESTOPPED, and nCLKSTOPPED are
asserted. The states of the L1 caches, ASTs and external paths from the SPE cluster to SoC domain are subject to ULP mode. These are idle and not being used by the Cortex-R5 actively.
- Second level clock gating handles the SPE and TCM clocks. I/O controllers may be clock-
gated by software. DMA is idle. I/O controllers in slave mode may be active and using local buffering but those in master mode are idle. Clocks can be switched to alternative sources including OSC. Switchover to 32 kHz is allowed only when ALLOW_DEEP_I bit of AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_0 is set and the system is in SC7 state. The I/O controller configurations and their clock controls can be in various states depending on use cases.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Entry Configuration
- The TCM is clock gated on assertion of nCLKSTOPPED signal. AO-PM detects this signal to
gate and ungate the TCM clocks.
- The AO PLL may be configured by SPE-FW to be placed in a low power mode like DISABLE/
- IDDQ if the I/O controllers are under S-managed clock-gated state or if their clocks are
configured to be supplied from non-PLL sources like OSC and 32 kHz. When AO PLL is placed in a low power mode, the default clock source is switched to OSC. The switching of the clock source is handled by AO-CAR. AON Rail retention is not enabled in this state. The TCM does not expect to be in retention mode in this shallower idle state.
- BPMP and PMC control whether clocks can be switched to 32 kHz in this state when the
system is in SC7.
- SPE-Standby Power State
The SPE-Standby state is entered when the SPE subsystem has been resident in the SPE-Idle state for a programmable interval of time. SPE-Standby is similar to SPE-Idle except that the TCM and cache SRAMs are placed in a low power mode (RET). The TCMs or the caches cannot be accessed when placed in RET mode. When the RAMs are placed in RET mode, the AO rail can be externally lowered to the level of SRAM retention voltage (expected to be higher than minimum functional logic voltage)
- TCM and Cache RAMs are put in RET mode by the AOPM Standby sequencer when the RAM_RET
bit in the AOPM_TGT_PWR_STATE_0 register is set. Other cluster RAMs are placed in RET mode under software control. Clocks and AO PLL are configured the same way as for SPE-Idle. Before the TCM is placed in retention, access to the TCM controller are blocked by the AO-PM hardware. The AO-PM also resolves race conditions between entering this low power state and an exit trigger like an interrupt showing up during entry. The L1 caches can be placed in retention mode along with the TCMs. The interrupts to the Cortex-R5 are explicitly blocked when caches are placed in retention. Accesses through the AXI-S slave port are blocked by AO-PM hardware too. Exit conditions for this state are identical to SPE-Idle state. The Deep Standby state entry is allowed only if the system is in the SC7 state and the ALLOW_DEEP_S bit in the AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_0 register is set.
- SPE-Dormant Power State
- The SPE wakes up on a CAN wake event to process the CAN message. The hardware architecture
supports a generic partially power-gated state for the AO cluster that can also be entered more aggressively when the sensor functions are enabled in the ULP mode. This power state may also trivially be engaged when sensor functions are statically disabled in the system by configuration or by user intervention. TCMs, Caches and other RAMs in AOPG cluster can be placed in RET mode. SPE’s reset vector must point to the TCM when the processor is taken out of power-gating since the SoC domain is

- AON Cluster Functional Description
powered off during this time. When all the SRAMs in the VDD_RTC power domain are placed in RET mode, the VDD_RTC rail can be lowered to SRAM_VRET. AOPG cluster can be power gated completely. In addition to the low power states of the resources supported in SPE-Idle and SPE-Standby state, the OSC pad can be turned off in this state if the system is in SC7. This requires all clocks to be switched to 32 kHz either in software or in hardware or gated off prior to OSC is turned off. AOPM can enter its Deep Dormant state, only when SoC is in the SC7 state. The PM handshakes with the
- SC7 FSM in the PMC to ensure that the SoC is in SC7 before the PM enters the deep dormant
state. There is a software knob to bypass the second clock switch (the one that switches to 32K and turns off OSC). If the BYPASS_TWO_STEP bit is set, DEEP_DORMANT is entered after PG. (There is no retention wait counter for dormant state.) The RAM_RET and RAIL_RET options are as discussed in the STBY section. The only difference is that even if no RAM_RET is requested, hardware will do RAM_RET, but it will still not override what software has requested. Exit from the SPE-Dormant state is triggered by interrupts (in the shallow state) from sources that are not power-gated and by wake events from sources that are power-gated, including the SC7 Tier 0 wake events. Thus, exit from the SPE-Dormant is automatically included in the SC7 exit sequence.
- Exit Handling Due to SC7 Exit
When AOPM FSMs are in any non-active state, an SC7 exit of the PMC results in an exit condition of AOPM FSMs, and this exit in non-maskable. That is, unlike for other exit causes who have a mask/unmask bit in POWER_CFG_MASK register, the SC7 exit from the PMC results in AOPM exiting from LP states. While an SC7 entry of the PMC gates the entry into deep states only, an SC7 exit causes an exit whether AOPM FSMs are in their shallow or deep flavors. An SC7 exit also gates off further deep state re-entry, unless explicitly reprogrammed to do so by the BPMP before the next SC7 entry. Example: If in a deep state and an SC7 exit happens in the PMC:
- Some deep state -> (SC7 wake) -> Shallow state -> Transitions for exit -> Active -> (LP
condition) -> Go up to Shallow only If in a shallow state and an SC7 exit happens in the PMC: Some shallow state -> (SC7 wake) -> Transition for exit -> Active -> (LP condition) -> go up to
- Shallow only
- Clock Burst on Interrupt
The processor may be busy executing very low horsepower tasks but not be able to suspend all tasks and execute a WFI instruction. The processor may switch its clocks to a slow source like OSC clock. This slow clock affects the latency to a subsequent interrupt. The added latency of

- AON Cluster Functional Description
processing the interrupt signal sequence and the ISR at a slow clock prevents the processor from switching to the slow clock when it is not completely idle but very lazy. AOPM supports switching the processor subsystem clocks to a faster source automatically when an interrupt is triggered. The interrupt specific clock source is used in both active and low power idle states of the processor complex. When the processor is active, the SPE-FW requests the AO-PM to switch aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and aon_apb_clk to pre-programmed values in the AO-CAR. SPE-FW writes to AOPM_PWR_STATE register STATE = ACTIVE_IRQFIQ to raise this request. AO-PM sends a request to AO-CAR using the TGT_ACTIVE_IRQFIQ command index, waits for the AO-CAR to switch the clocks and acknowledge, after which it updates AOPM_PWR_STATUS to STATE = ACTIVE_IRQFIQ to reflect that the software request is completed. SPE-FW switches the clocks back to the TGT_ACTIVE state after servicing the pending interrupts. When SPE-FW switches the clocks back to TGT_ACTIVE state, the AOPM_PWR_STATUS gets updated to STATE = ACTIVE.
- When the processor is idle and the AO-PM has placed the subsystem in one of the low power
states described above, if the exit condition is an interrupt, the AO-PM hardware requests the AOCAR to auto-switch to the faster clock sources if BURST mode is enabled. This feature leverages the index-based request/acknowledge protocol between AOPM and the AO-
- CAR block. BURST_CLK_EN field in AOPM_BURST_CLK_0 register must be set to enable this
feature in ACTIVE state and BURST_LP_EN field of the same register must be set to enable this feature in non-ACTIVE or low power states. If the interrupt to Cortex-R5 is masked inside the PM module using the LP_EXIT_MASK register, then clock bursting is bypassed by the PM hardware upon a wake from nCLKSTOPPED or nWFIPIPESTOPPED de-assertion event.
##### 9.13.2.12.5 AO I/O DPD
AO-PM does not control any DPD control of the AO I/O pads. This is handled inside the PMC.
##### 9.13.2.12.6 SRAM Low Power Mode Management
AO-PM implements a handshake with the PMC in the Standby/Dormant states in order to put the following RAMs in retention mode.
- This interface constitutes a request from the AO-PM and an acknowledgement coming from the
PMC. For the RAMs to be put in retention, the request line is asserted HIGH and low indicates removal of Retention mode.
- In the case of NO_ACK from PMC, PM FSM times out and an interrupt can be raised on
NO_RET_ACK. The following RAMs are controlled by PMC: 1. 2.
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank0
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank1

- AON Cluster Functional Description
3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank2
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank3
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank4
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank5
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank6
- B0TCM and B1TCM_Bank7
- Cache0
- LCache0
- DCache0
10. 11.
- CAN0
- CAN1
In addition to the hardware handshake, shutdown and retention controls of these Cluster RAMs can be directly controlled by software and those registers lie in the PMC module. Note: CAN RAMs are not controlled by AO-PM hardware sequencer. It is mandatory for SPE-SW to put CAN RAMs in low power mode (RET or SLEEP) if AO-PM is configured to enter the deep- dormant state, as it is illegal to have RAM in functional mode and Logic in a PG-ed state. If RAM_RET == RAIL_RET == 0, then Standby FSM becomes identical to Idle FSM, barring the fact that different CAR target request ids are sent from PM to CAR.
#### 9.13.2.13 AXI Block Support
AOPM provides support via configuration registers to block AXI requests. The following register in AO-PM supports this.
- Register: AOPM_AON_BLOCK_0
Fields:
- AOPM_AON_BLOCK_0_AON2SNIC_REQ: This bit blocks AXI requests on the control fabric to
the SOC. Since AON can be operating when SOC is not powered on, it is used to block the requests going towards SOC.
- AOPM_AON_BLOCK_0_AON2MC_REQ: This bit in AO-PM blocks AXI requests to MC. Since
- AON can be operating when MC is not powered on, it is used to stop the requests going
towards SOC. Additionally, there is a status register to read back status from the AXIBLOCK FSM via a block status [31:0] sideband input to AO-PM.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
#### 9.13.2.14 Interrupts
AO-PM has three interrupts going out.
- Table 9.99 PM Interrupts
- Interrupt Sources
- Pm2vic_intr
- RTC_ALARM
- NO_CAR_ACK
- NO_OSC_ACK
- NO_RET_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE
- Pm2lic_intr
- RTC_ALARM
- NO_CAR_ACK
- NO_OSC_ACK
- NO_RET_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE_ACK
- NO_NOC_IDLE
- Pm_actmon_intr
- PM Unit Actmon
- RTC_ALARM = When the RTC second/millisecond time matches the programmed value in the
configuration registers, it generates an RTC alarm. The RTC generates an interrupt or generate an exit from low power states. The interrupt handler for the RTA Alarm Wake reprograms the
- AOPM_RTC_ALARM_TIMER and/or AOPM_RTC_ALARM_MSEC_TIMER registers before clearing the
interrupt so that the interrupt does not fire spuriously. BPMP_PM (bpmp_pm2lic_int) and BPMP- PM (bpmp_pm2vic_int) are generated from the same sources, but have a different set of status (pre-mask), Mask, Set, and Clear registers for VIC and for LIC interrupts. Note that SPE should not be interrupted for NO_DVS_ACK. The interrupt to NO_DVS_ACK can be selectively masked off for SPE but enabled for LIC (for BPMP). NO_CAR_ACK = When CAR is requested to change the clock source or assert/de-assert PG resets, but the PM FSM times out waiting for an ACK, this interrupt is raised. The PM FSM cannot assume a good clock or a complete reset sequence, and the BPMP may need to come in and reset the PM and the system to a known good state of clocks.
- NO_OSC_ACK = When PMC has been requested to turn on/off the OSC ACK is obtained, instead
the PM FSM times out waiting for an ACK from the PMC.
- NO_RET_ACK = When PMC has been requested to put RAMs in/out retention mode, but the PM
does not get an ACK, the PM FSM times out waiting for an ACK from the PMC. In this case, PM FSM cannot assume any good state of cluster RAMs (partial sequencing of RAM low power mode is also a possible scenario). Upon narrowing down that the interrupt is due to NO_RET_ACK, software

- AON Cluster Functional Description
can check the corresponding RAM status bits and also the PG controller status register to infer if there is a hang in the PG controller in the PMC.
- NO_NOC_IDLE_ACK = When NOC_PM has been requested to query power disconnect modules/T-
NIUs that there are no pending transactions. If the PM does not get an ACK, the PM FSM timer times out.
- NO_NOC_IDLE = When NOC_PM does not give an IDLE indication for the PM dormant state
machine to move forward, the PM FSM times out.
#### 9.13.2.15 Cortex-R5 Activity Monitor
- The AO-PM has a unit ACTMON. The interrupt from the unit ACTMON is not merged with the PM
interrupt. It is separately routed to the local VIC and to LIC. The PM uses this ACTMON to detect idle periods of the processor complex and monitors key events that the Cortex-R5 exposes on its event bus. The idle state of the Cortex-R5 is not exposed to the event bus. Therefore, the idle signals nCLKSTOPPED, nWFIPIPESTOPPED, and nWFEPIPESTOPPED must be separately exported to detect idle period statistics and use the information for scaling the performance of the Cortex- R5.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
**Figure 9.99 Cortex-R5 Unit ACTMON**
- Outputs from the Cortex-R5 are sampled at the processor clock frequency and a cumulative
counter incremented for every cycle that the unit_active signal is asserted. The cumulative count is compared with a target count. When the cumulative count in processor clock rate reaches the target value, the ACTMON is notified. The EVENTBUS signals hooked up to the ACTMON are indicative of the following events.
- EVENTBUS[5]: Indicates that the instruction is architecturally executed. Asserted on every
cycle when an instruction was architecturally executed by the processor.
- EVENTBUS[16]: Stalls because instruction buffer cannot deliver an instruction. This can
indicate an instruction cache miss. Asserted every cycle where the condition is present.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- EVENTBUS[19]: External memory request. Examples of this are cache refill, non-cacheable
accesses, write-through writes, cache line evictions (write-back).
- EVENTBUS[20]: Stalls because of Load Store Unit (LSU) being busy. The event takes place
each clock cycle where the condition is met. A high incidence of this event indicates the pipeline is often waiting for transactions to complete on the external bus.
#### 9.13.2.16 Programming Model
##### 9.13.2.16.1 AOPM Address Map
- This address space is address decoded within PM into PM_IMPL (the functional PM part), the
PM_ACTMON (of the unit ACTMON), and the rest is reserved.
- Base Address Define
- Value
- Sub-Aperture Address Define
- Value
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_BASE
0xC1F0000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_IMPL_BASE
0xC1F0000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_IMPL_LIMIT
0xC1FFFFF
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_IMPL_SIZE
0x10000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_ACTMON_BASE
0xC200000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_ACTMON_LIMIT
0xC20FFFF
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_ACTMON_SIZE
0x10000
- RESERVED >
0xC210000
- NV_ADDRESS_MAP_AON_PM_LIMIT
0xC22FFFF
##### 9.13.2.16.2 AON Power States Programming Guidelines
- SPE- IDLE Entry Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex-R5 SW
- Set up AO-PM with power state transition command by writing to AOPM_TGT_PWR _STATE
register.
- STATE == IDLE
- TCM_ACTIVE (implicit for IDLE mode)
Set up AO-CAR with power state transition info by writing to registers described in the Clocks Chapter to set up the clock source to switch to and the power state of the AOPLL. It could be either of these registers:
- TGT_IDLE_SHALLOW
- TGT_IDLE_DEEP
- Cortex-R5 SW
Execute WFI.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- Clock gating Logic
All second level clock gating controls kick in at this stage except the TCM clocks, backbone clocks for DMA, NOC branches that may be actively used by the DMA during this time along with any active I/O clock(s). Software may additionally FLCG I/O clock sources or switch these to OSC or 32K. Software accordingly programs TGT_IDLE before executing WFI so that AO-PM or AO-CAR hardware does not turn the PLL off when any of the I/O controllers are actively using these clock sources.
- AO-DMA
DMA goes idle and gets clock gated at the second level.
- AXI-S
AXI-S port goes idle as DMA and I/O controllers go idle.
- Cortex-R5
- AO-PM
Engage the second level clock gates on TCM clocks.
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to a slower clock.
- AO-CAR
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_IDLE_SHALLOW sources if enabled. Place AO-PLL in
TGT_IDLE_SHALLOW mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == IDLE_SHALLOW and other fields as
per entry sequence.
- AO-PM
Check for AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_TGT_DEEP_IDLE. If not DISABLE-d, enter DEEP_IDLE state.
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_IDLE_DEEP. Place AO-PLL in low power TGT_IDLE_DEEP mode.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_IDLE_SOURCE if enabled. Place AO-PLL in TGT_IDLE mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == IDLE_DEEP. Other fields as per entry sequence.
- SPE-IDLE Exit Sequence
Once an exit condition is triggered:
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex- R5
- Detects interrupt from AVIC or detects request on AXI-S port to come out of Standby mode
- AO-PM
Release TCM clock gates within three cycles of nCLKSTOPPED getting deasserted. Detect exit from the SPE-Idle state and capture the cause for wake up in a status register. If the wake up is due to an SC7 wake event: 1. 2. Re-enable the DEEP_IDLE override in hardware. Optionally raise an interrupt to SPE.
- AO-PM
Take AOPLL out of low-power mode. Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to the mode in which the clocks were running prior to entering this SPE-Idle state.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-CAR
Place AOPLL in TGT_ACTIVE or TGT_ACTIVE_IRQFIQ mode. Switch Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_ACTIVE or TGT_ACTIVE_IRFIQ source. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == ACTIVE or ACTIVE_IRQFIQ.
- SPE-STANDBY Entry Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex- R5 SW
Set up AO-PM with power state transition command by writing to: AOPM_TGT_PWR _STATE register.
- STATE == STANDBY
RAM_RET or RAIL_RET enabled.
- RAM_RET = RAM ret mode
- RAIL_RET = AON rail retention
Set RAM_RET and/or RAIL_RET. Set up AO-CAR with power state transition info for clock sources and AOPLL.
- TGT_STBY_SHALLOW
- TGT_STBY_DEEP
- Cortex- R5 SW
Execute WFI.
- Cortex- R5 HW
- AXI-S port goes idle
- AO-PM
Execute the entry steps for entering SPE-Idle. During these steps, AO-PM requests AO-CAR to use TGT_STBY_SHALLOW commands. SPE-Standby entry is stepped through SPE-Idle. Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register.
- CURRENT_STATE = STBY_SHALLOW_IDLE
Optionally, use the DMA_ACTIVE (MC-side) indicator from the SPE-DMA to infer idleness.
- AO-PM
Block TCM accesses from AXI-S port upon expiry of the retention entry delay timer.
- AO-PM
Block interrupts from reaching the Cortex-R5 from VIC.
- AO-PM
Check if RAM_RET is enabled. Handshakes with PMC.
- PMC
Completes RAM retention sequencing and ACKs back to PM.
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register with STATE == STBY_SHALLOW.
- AO-PM
Check for AOPM_POWER_CFG_MASK_TGT_DEEP_STANDBY. If DISABLE-d, enter DEEP_STANDBY state.
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_STBY source. Place AO-PLL in low power mode TGT_STBY.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_STBY if enabled. Switch non Cortex-R5 clocks to OSC if they are sourced from AO-PLL. Place AO-PLL in TGT_STBY mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register. Set CURRENT_STATE == STANDBY_DEEP. Other fields as per entry sequence.
- SPE-STANDBY Exit Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex- R5
Detects interrupt from AVIC or detects request on AXI-S port to come out of Standby mode.
- AO-PM
Release TCM clock gates within three cycles of nCLKSTOPPED getting deasserted. Detect exit from SPE-Standby state and capture the cause for wake-up in a status register.
- If the exit condition is due to an SC7 wake request from PMC
1. 2. Re-enable DEEP_STANDBY override in hardware. Optionally raise an interrupt to SPE. Before taking the rail out of retention, aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and aon_apb_clk clocks should be switched back to at least the OSC clock if they were running off 32 kHz. This is to not incur extra latency on the exit path by operating the logic that controls rail voltage at a very slow clock.
- AO-PM
- Switch aon_cpu_clk, aon_nic_clk and aon_apb_clk back to OSC and wait for acknowledgement
from AO-CAR.
- AO-CAR
Switch AOPLL and Cortex-R5 clocks to TGT_STBY_SHALLOW. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
- Handshake with PMC to take TCMs and caches out of retention mode
- PMC
- Brings RAMs out of retention modes
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks and AOPLL back to their ACTIVE state sources. This step must wait for RAIL_RET exit to complete. AO-PM implements the rail retention exit timer.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 clocks and AOPLL to TGT_ACTIVE or TGT_ACTIVE_IRQFIQ mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Upon completion of RAIL_RET exit, RAM_RET exit requests, unblock TCM accesses on AXI-S path and unblock interrupts. Do not wait for clocks and AOPLL to switch to TGT_ACTIVE mode.
- AO-PM
Upon completion of RAIL_RET exit, RAM_RET exit requests, unblock interrupt. Do not wait for clocks and AOPLL to switch to TGT_ACTIVE mode.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register
Set CURRENT_STATE == ACTIVE or ACTIVE_IRQFIQ.
- SPE-DORMANT Entry Sequence

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- Cortex-R5 SW
Prepare I/O controllers for power-gating mode. For each I/O controller: 1. 2. 3. 4. Execute context save operations after the controller is in idle state. Clock gate the controller. Assert reset to the controller. Switch I/O controller clocks to 32 kHz. Put the CAN message RAMs into SLEEP mode. Flush and disable the L1 caches and place them in SLEEP mode.
- Cortex-R5 SW
- Set up AO-PM with power state transition command by writing to AOPM_TGT_PWR _STATE
register.
- STATE == DORMANT
RAM_RET and/or RAIL_RET is enabled. Set up AO-CAR with power state transition info by writing to registers described in Clocks Chapter
- TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW (should be no slower than OSC)
- TGT_DORMANT (expected to be 32 kHz)
(Can optionally set up the Rail retention Control Mode in the PMC.)
- Cortex-R5 SW
- Execute WFI
- Cortex-R5
- AO-PM
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW. Place AO-PLL in low power mode.
- AO-CAR
Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW if enabled. Place AO-PLL in TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW mode. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Block accesses at the AXI-S interface. This prevents TCM accesses when the TCM is in retention. Block interrupts at the output of the AVIC. This prevents Cortex-R5 from being woken up when TCM and caches are held in retention.
- AO-PM
Put RAMs in RET mode by implementing handshake with the PMC.
- PMC
- Upon receiving request from AO-PM, the PMC PG Controller puts the AOPG RAMs in RET mode
and sends an ACK to AO-PM.
- Before switching the AO-PM clock itself to 32 kHz, the reset and PG sequence, OSC control
sequence must be completed. AO-PM first waits for the PMC to go into SC7, executes the below sequences handshaking with PMC, and then switches the clocks to 32 kHz.
- AO-PM
Wait for PMC to indicate that SC7 entry is completed.
- PMC
De-assert SC7 commit indication once SC7 entry is completed and there is no pending wake event detected for SC7 exit. Wait for AO-PM to deassert AOPM acknowledgement before responding to a subsequent SC7 action. The rest of the Dormant state entry sequence holds off SC7 wake events.
- AO-PM
Hold off PMC from exiting SC7.
- AOPM
AO-PM sends a request to NOC PM to ensure there are no outstanding transactions in NoC.
- AON-NOC
Handshakes with T-NIUs in NOC to ensure no outstanding transactions, and sends an ack back to the PM.
- AON-NOC
Handshakes with power disconnect modules in NoC and sends a second ACK to the PM.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
- Once idle is received from NoC, PM sequences the module resets and module clock enables in
preparation for power-gating AOPG domain. The modules that are reset in Hardware are
- Cortex-R5 resets (nSYSPORESET, PRESETDBG, DBGRESET and nRESET)
- AON VIC reset
- AON Fabric resets
1. 2. 3.
- The module that can be reset only when the system is in SC7 is the
- AON-NoC resets
1. The AO-PM waits for the PMC to go into SC7 before resetting any module for power-gating.
- AO-CAR
Assert requested resets and gate requested clocks and acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
- Place the Cortex-R5 in HALT mode until the PG exit sequence is completed
- AO-PM
Trigger PG state machine to assert clamp enables and sleep enables for AOPG domain. Wait for completion of PG entry sequence.
- AO-PM
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to a clock source programmed in
TGT_DORMANT_DEEP_CLKSRC and assert AOPLL low power mode.
- AO-CAR
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks to TGT_DORMANT_CLKSRC if enabled and place AOPLL in low
power mode defined by this configuration. Acknowledge AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Request PMC to turn OSC off.
- PMC
Conditionally turn OSC off if enabled by BPMP.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register
- CURRENT_STATE == DORMANT_DEEP
- SPE-DORMANT Exit Sequence
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
Detects exit conditions:
- Pending interrupt (in shallow state) from AVIC outputs
- Pending wake events from the Wake Engine
- SC7 indication to exit low power states
- Software triggered exit from external NoC master access (valid only until AOPG is power
gated) 1. 2. 3. 4.
- AO-PM
- Request for OSC pad to be turned on
- PMC
- Turn OSC pad on
- AO-PM
- Switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to TGT_DORMANT_SHALLOW (required to be OSC). This
also switches AOPLL to the corresponding mode.
- AO-PM
- Requests PMC PG state machine to get RAMs out of RET mode and AOPG domain out of power
gating.
- If the exit condition is due to an SC7 wake request from PMC, then re-enable DEEP_DORMANT
override in hardware.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Agent
- Step
- AO-PM
Once AOPG domain is unpower gated, take the modules out of reset that are not under software reset control. This sends a request to the NOC to do power-ungating steps. Then indicates to the SC7 sequencer that AON exit actions are complete. Once the rail is exited from retention voltage, take the TCMs and SRAMs out of RET mode.
- Switch AOPLL back to TGT_ACTIVE and switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to TGT_ACTIVE
sources. Wait for ACK from AO-CAR. Request CAR to deassert resets to all hardware-controlled modules. The modules whose resets are removed in hardware are: 1. 2. 3.
- Cortex-R5 resets (nSYSPORESET, PRESETDBG, DBGRESET and nRESET)
- AON VIC reset
- AON Fabric resets
- AO-CAR
- Switch AOPLL back to TGT_ACTIVE and switch Cortex-R5 subsystem clocks back to TGT_ACTIVE
sources. Switch PWR-I2C clock back to TGT_ACTIVE source. Send acknowledgement to AO-PM. Take modules out of reset as requested by AO-PM and send acknowledgement back to AO-PM.
- AO-PM
Once TCMs are out of RET mode, unblock the AXI-S.
- AO-PM
- Once the Cortex-R5 resets are removed and AO-CAR sends an acknowledgement back, and the
SRAMs have also been taken out of retention mode, take the Cortex-R5 out of HALT mode.
- AO-PM
- Update AOPM_PWR_STATUS register
- CURRENT_STATE == ACTIVE
##### 9.13.2.16.3 AO-CAR
The block called AO-CAR is the CAR parts that reside in the AO voltage domain. AO-CAR provides the clocks and resets to both the AON cluster and the other blocks that are inside the AO voltage domain.AO-CAR
##### 9.13.2.16.4 DMA Controller
The AON cluster DMA controller is an eight-channel implementation of the central DMA controller. The DMA request from the AON Cluster (I2C[2:0], SPI, UART, and DMIC) are connected to the local
- DMA controller. Refer to the General Purpose DMA (GPC-DMA, AON, BPMP, and SCE DMA) chapter
in this TRM for more details.
- Table 9.100 DMA Request Mapping
- Block
- TX DMA Request Port
(DMA_TX [31:0])
- RX DMA Request Port
(DMA_RX [31:0])
- Reserved
- I2C2 (AON_I2C2)
- I2C8 (AON_I2C3)
- SPI2 (AON_SPI1)

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Block
- TX DMA Request Port
(DMA_TX [31:0])
- RX DMA Request Port
(DMA_RX [31:0])
- UARTC (AON UARTC)
- UARTJ (SBSA_UART)
- DMIC
N/A
- GTE
N/A
- UART6 [from SoC for closed system debug]
- UART8 [from SoC for closed system debug]
##### 9.13.2.16.5 Address Translation
The AON Cluster is required to support sending requests to DRAM that indicate to the SMMU if the request requires translation to support a physical carve-out. The SMMU needs to handle requests differently based on if a translation is requested. Since the Cortex-R5 is not capable of indicating if a request requires translation, an Address Space Translation Engine (AST) is used to define the address regions that require translation. The AST is also used to remap the Cortex-R5 and DMA generated address to prevent address space collision for I/O virtual addresses. The AON cluster includes two eight region AST modules. Refer to Address Space Translation (AST) for more information. The AON Cluster is only allowed to bypass SMMU translation when accessing the AON Cluster-only carve-out. If a translation is not requested, the SMMU must bypass the address translation and ensure the address is inside the AON Cluster DRAM region. If a translation is requested, the SMMU performs the translation and ensures that the translated address is not in the AON Cluster region (or any other protected region).
##### 9.13.2.16.6 Shared Mailboxes
- The AON cluster uses shared MMIO mailbox registers to communicate between the Cortex-R5
other processors in the system. The mailbox implementation is defined in the Hardware
- Synchronization Primitives (HSP) chapter of this TRM. The HSP in the AON cluster uses the
following configuration i.e., eight Shared Mail Box Instances (nSM) and four Shared Semaphore (nSS) instances. The number of Shared interrupts i.e., nSI is five. nSM nAS nSS nDB nSI
- Notes
SI[0] is sent to the AVIC. [SI[4:1] are sent to the LIC.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
##### 9.13.2.16.7 Timekeeping Engine (TKE)
Cortex-R5 does not have built-in timers, the timers are integrated into the BPMP subsystem with an external Timekeeping Engine (TKE). The timekeeping unit provides the following functionalities: 1. 2. 3.
- Timers (NV_timers)
- Watchdog (WDT)
- Timestamp counter (TSC) read-back
- Table 9.101 AON TKE Configuration
- Parameter
- Value
- Number of NV_timers (nT)
- Number of watchdogs (nW)
- Interrupt routing
- Disabled
- Number of shared interrupts exposed
- TSC input type (isSerial)
1 (Serial)
**Figure 9.100 AON Timers and WDT Hookup**

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Watchdog Timer
A watchdog timer associated with the AON Cortex-R5 is instanced to monitor Cortex-R5 CPU's health. The watchdog timer has robust restart mechanisms like windowed watchdog and Question and Answer watchdog. AON cluster has a dedicated watchdog timer instanced in the cluster. This enables us to architect the functionality of this timer as per AON clusters specific requirements.
##### 9.13.2.16.8 Timestamping (GTE)
- The AON cluster implements a timestamp module (GTE) for logging the current TSC value when
interrupts or GPIO events occur.
##### 9.13.2.16.9 GTE and DMA
- The AON DMA engine can be used to read from the GTE timestamp FIFO instead of reading the
FIFO using the Cortex-R5. One use case is for the GTE to timestamp the GPIO changes to recover a waveform (for example handling IR receive). To use GTE and DMA in this manner, the following configuration must be used. GTE:
- GTE_GPIO_TECTRL_0[AUTOADVADDR] = 0x3
- GTE_GPIO_TECTRL_0[OCCUPANCYTHRESHOLD] = 0x1
- GTE_GPIO_TECTRL_0[INTERRUPTENABLE] = 0x1
DMA:
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_MMIO_SEQ_0[MMIO_BURST] = 0x7
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_MMIO_SEQ_0[MMIO_ADDR_WRAP] = 0x4
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_SRC_PTR_0[SRC_PTR] = GTE base
address
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_MC_SEQ_0[MC_BURST] = 0x0
- GPCDMA_FLV_8CH_NON_SAFE_CHANNEL_CH<X>_DMA_BYTE_TRA_0[TRANSFER_COUNT] =
8x4x (number of samples) When using this configuration, the GTE interrupt in the AVIC must be masked.
##### 9.13.2.16.10 I2C
The AON cluster implements two I2C controllers.

- AON Cluster Functional Description
- Table 9.102 AON I2C Controllers
- Global AMAP Name
- Key Usage Examples
- I2C2
- Camera configuration, Touch control, Sensor interfaces
- I2C8
- Display Aggregator, Sensor Hub Control
##### 9.13.2.16.11 SPI
The AON cluster implements one SPI controller.
- Table 9.103 AON SPI Controller
- AON SPI Instance
- Global AMAP Name
- AON_SPI
- SPI2
##### 9.13.2.16.12 UART
The AON cluster implements two UARTs for primary debug purposes. UARTC is an instance of the standard UART IP, but is implemented as a two pin UART with the CTS and RTS pins tied off so the IP can always send and receive data. UARTJ is the SBSA Compliant UART for debug purposes.
- See Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Table 9.104 AON UARTs
- Global AMAP Name
- UART Type
- Usage Details
- UARTC
2pin
- Primary Two Pin Debug UART. Can also be controlled by
- BPMP and CCPLEX with interrupts routed to BPMP cluster
and LIC. This is the case for flow control signals also, i.e., routed to BPMP Cluster DMA and GPC DMA.
- UART_J
2 pin SBSA Compliant UART.
##### 9.13.2.16.13 PWM
- The AON cluster implements one PWM. The details of the PMW can be found in the Pulse Width
Modulator (PWM) chapter of this document.
##### 9.13.2.16.14 GPIO Controllers
- The AON cluster implements a GPIO controller and pinmux module. Both modules have separate
APB interfaces. There are four interrupts (two functional and two time-stamp interrupts) from the GPIO controller. One functional interrupt and one timestamp interrupt is sent from the GPIO block to the AON interrupt controller. All functional and timestamp interrupts is sent to LIC.

- AON Programming Guidelines
##### 9.13.2.16.15 DMIC
The AON cluster implements a DMIC controller for supporting voice wake functionality. The AON DMIC controller is optimized for low power voice wake requirements.
##### 9.13.2.16.16 CEC
The Consumer Electronic Controller (CEC) unit is added in the AO domain. The motivation for adding the controller to AON is to be able to wake the system up from SC7 only on messages indicated to the SoC and not to wake up on unintended or spurious toggles of the input (wake capable pad).}.Body)
