# 9.3.3 Programming Guidelines

The following subsection provides guidance on the exact usage of the registers, especially when the sequence of accesses is important.
#### 9.3.3.1 Use of Top TKE for CPU Core Wake
The Arm generic timers inside CCPLEX cannot always be used as wake timers. Specifically, the Arm generic timers stop operating when the associated cluster is power gated. So during the time a CPU cluster is power gated, associated NV timers in Top TKE become the CPU core wake timers. The implementation is described below:
- There is a static one-to-one association between a CPU core, a NV timer in Top TKE and an
interrupt, the mapping is dependent on the mode of operation of the cluster: split or lock- step. The exact mapping is defined by software, the following is a suggestion and not normative: In split mode, core i in cluster j is associated with timer i + N * j, with N the number of cores per cluster and the same numbered shared interrupt. In lockstep mode, core i in cluster j is associated with timer i + N * j, with N the number of core pairs per cluster and the same numbered shared interrupt. Each primary core has an associated redundant that is not associated to any timer (and not truly numbered or visible architecturally). Before going to sleep, software running on that core programs the earliest expiration of any
- Arm generic timer currently active to the associated NV timer. The NV timer is not enabled
yet at that time as the Arm generic timers are still active, so only the expiration time is programmed. Software also stores the state of all Arm generic timers to memory.
- Note: Because Arm generic timers use a system register interface, only software running
on a given core has access to the corresponding Arm generic timer, this is the underlying problem that requires to use the NV timer as a wake timer per CPU core instead of one NV timer per CPU cluster.
- Before power gating a CPU cluster, all NV timers associated with that CPU cluster are
enabled. The interrupts may also be enabled at this time or may be always enabled Software must insure that races are not possible, i.e., that the CPU cluster will enter power gating before any Arm generic timer reaches expiration.
- The NV timer interrupts are connected as SPI
- When an NV timer used as wake timer expires, the corresponding interrupt wakes the CPU
cluster (if needed), then wakes the corresponding core. Software running on the CPU core

- Timers
- Identifies that this a wake coming from the NV timer
- In the improbable case that the wake time is less than the earliest expiration of an Arm
timer, restart the NV timer and go back to sleep.
- Restores the state of the Arm generic timer, by construction this includes one Arm generic
timer with the same expiration as the NV timer, and so that timer fires immediately. That interrupt will be treated as usual When the NV timers in Top TKE are used as CPU core wake timers, they are preferably configured in the following way:
- Use TSC as the reference
- Use Timer Absolute Target Register (TMRATR) programmed to match the corresponding TSC
value in the Arm generic timer. This requires some care as TMRATR is only 29 bits, and comparisons are done using finite horizon arithmetic. If the expiration is less than 228 TSC units in the future, about 8.5 seconds, program the 29
- LSB of the expiration in TMRATR and program TSC itself as the reference in Timer Clock
Source Selection Register (TMRCSSR). If the expiration is more than 228 but less than 240 TSC units in the future, about 9.7 hours, change the reference in TMRCSSR to be TSC shifted by 12, shift the expiration by 12 to the right, and program the 29 LSB of the shifted value into TMRATR.
- If the expiration is more than 240 TSC units in the future, saturate. When the interrupt
triggers, restart the NV timer using the same procedure (possibly saturating again).
#### 9.3.3.2 Context Save and Restore Across Power State Transitions
- Power state transitions require the affected modules to be restarted after the power state
transition, with SC7 entry/exit the most important power state transition. There are a few canonical ways to handle this: Do nothing, the reset value of the register is correct. Registers are restored to a statically defined value. The register does not need to be fully static, but the initial value after the power state transition is not dependent on the previous history. Registers are restored based on their (dynamic) state prior to the power state transition. This requires to save a relevant context, normally in external memory, and later to use the saved context to restore registers. Note that preserving the context can be done either:
- During SC7 entry
When the register is modified, this may be required for registers that are not accessible to the SC7 exit process, generally because the SC7 entry process does not have sufficient access rights. This section provides guidance for the registers, in particular detailing all special cases where the software sequence may be more complex than writing back the stored value, including:

- Timers
Security aspects linked to the new security model. Registers that are have special access rules like indirection or lockable. Registers that require some adaptation between save and restore.
- The SC7 restore proceeds in two steps to reduce the latency associated with power state
transitions: A small set of registers, including the SCR are restored first by a secure software process.
- This set should be small for performance reason. Note that in many cases, the SCR have
static values, so they do not require to be saved.
- Most of the registers protected by the SCR, especially most of the TrustZone secure
registers are ideally restored later, while some unrelated non-secure software processes may already be active before full restoration takes place. This specific way of handling SC7 requires checking if the default value of registers presents a security exposure. This section classifies the different registers in three categories: R0: Registers that must be restored in the first step to avoid a security exposure. R1: Registers that may be restored in the first step for a fully clean solution. These registers must be so that information leakage can be fully averted if context restoration proceeds in a specific sequence. However not following the ideal sequence only allows non-secure software to observe TrustZone events that otherwise would be hidden, but without compromising security itself. R2: Restored registers with no specific security requirements.
- NR: Registers that do not need to be restored
All TSC registers are in the A0 partition and are NR. Note however that a portion of the TSC logic depends OSC or PLLP being active, so there are specific requirements to handle SC7, but the sequence is not expected to impact the registers. There are two special cases, as explained below. STSCCR is special, to avoid the main and secondary TSC to drift apart, an INIT must be performed at each system reset. This can be done by reading STSCCR then writing it back with the INIT bit set. Note: Secondary and main can drift apart when they are not locked together and secondary TSC uses PLLP outside of SC7. To avoid a dependency on the platform, INIT must be performed at each system reset, i.e., when the distribution leaves are reset. Software is allowed to explicitly suspend distribution during low power states, in which case distribution may need to be restarted during exit of the low power state, making TSCDCR special. This is not mandatory; the hardware distribution is designed to allow the distribution logic in TSC to remain continuously active even if the distribution network on the SoC side is in reset.
- The tables below list the registers and the associated guidance and are extensions of the
corresponding summary tables.

- Timers
- Table 9.22 Guidance for SC7 Handling of Arm TSC Control Registers
- Register Name
- Category
- Remark
- CNTCR
In Always On partition, not affected by SC7.
- CNTSR
- CNTCV0
- CNTCV1
- NR
- CNTFID0
- CNTFID1
- CounterID4
- CounterID{5:7}
- CounterID{0:3}
- CounterID{8:11}
- Table 9.23 Guidance for SC7 Handling of Arm TSC Status Registers
- Register Name
- Category
- Remark
- CNTCV0
In Always On partition, not affected by SC7.
- CNTCV1
- NR
- CounterID4
- CounterID{5:7}
- CounterID{0:3}
- CounterID{8:11}
- Table 9.24 Guidance for SC7 Handling of TSC Implementation Registers
- Register
- Name
- Category
- Remark
- MTSCACR
- In Always On partition, not affected by SC7. Note however that a portion of the TSC
logic depends on OSC or PLLP being active, so there are specific requirements to handle SC7, but the sequence depicted there does not impact the registers.
- MTSCADR
- MTSCANNR
- NR
- MTSCANDR
- MTSCCNTCV0
- MTSCCNTCV1
- STSCCR

- Timers
- Register
- Name
- Category
- Remark
- STSCRSR
- STSCIR{0,1}
- STSCSR
- TSCDCR
- TSCSCR
- Table 9.25 Guidance for SC7 Handling of TSC CAR Registers
- Register
- Name
- Category
- Remark
- CSTSCR0
- R0
- These are marked R0 because it is assumed they provide the reference for
(secure) time, and so should probably restored quickly. There are no associated security requirements. The values restored are static for a given platform, so not clear if this requires a saving step.
- TSCDIVR0
- R0
- TSCDIVR1
- R0
- Table 9.26 Guidance for SC7 Handling of Common GTE Registers, when Outside of AO Partition
- Register Name
- Category
- Remark
- TECTRL{t}
- R2
- Generic TimeStamp Engine Control
- TETSCH{t}
- NR

