# 9.3.2 Functional Description

@{Key=9.3.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The common reference for all timers is a frequency corrected version of the 32,768 Hz input clock. When operated in locked mode, the timers operate as a hierarchy shown below. When locking is not enabled, the different timers operate independently.

- Timers
**Figure 9.16 Timer Hierarchy**
All Time-Keeping Elements (TKEs) in the SoC can be traced to the OSC or 32,768 Hz clocks. All TKEs, except TSC, can optionally take TSC as their timing reference to ensure a universal timebase. This, however, is not a mandatory mode of operation (see figure above).

- Timers
- Locking the reference happens via a Numerically Controlled Oscillator (NCO), i.e., a phase
accumulator. An NCO can be coupled with a very simple loop filter to lock its frequency to a reference.
#### 9.3.2.1 Hierarchical Grouping
- For ease of use, NV timers and WDTs are provided in a packaged module called Time-Keeping
Element (TKE). The general TKE structure is shown below.
**Figure 9.17 Timekeeping Element IP Module**
A TKE contains the following elements: A TSC value synchronized to the TKE clock. The TSC value is used both for the operation of the timers inside the TKE and exposed in software readable registers (providing a low-latency path for TSC access by a local processor). The TSC value comes in parallel format, normally from a TSC terminal node. The terminal node could be used by other blocks and is not instantiated inside the TKE itself.
- Local microsecond and OSC counters, also synchronized to the TKE clock. These counters are
used for the operation of the timers and exposed in software readable registers. Contrary to the TSC, the microsecond and OSC counters in different TKE modules are not aligned to a common Main via hardware mechanisms.

- Timers
A programmable number of NV timers, nT, at maximum 16. A programmable number of watchdog timers, nW, at maximum four, when using shared interrupts. An optional interrupt routing block, with nSI shared interrupts.
- An APB interface
A TKE module exposes as outputs: A set of interrupts
- The complete set of raw interrupts are always present. But only a smaller number, nDI, may
be connected to an interrupt controller A set of aggregated and routed interrupts when the interrupt routing block is present A set of WDT reset request interface signals, connected only when required. TKE has the following configuration parameters:
- The number of NV timers, nT
- The number of watchdog timers, nW
- The number of directly connected interrupts, nDI, range[0, nT+3nW]
- The number of shared interrupts, nSI
Note: nSI > 0 implies TKE instantiates interrupt routing logic in the TKE common logic. When nSI is > 0 and the interrupt routing logic is present, nT must be in the range [0,16] and nW in the range [0,4] to fit into the interrupt status register. If nSI == 0, the interrupt status register is not present and there is no a priori limit on the TKE configuration. Only three different configurations (three flavors) are used across all instances, one for top, one for
- FSI and one for everything else. All flavors have nT an even number to allow for software
consistency when needed. Each TKE also contains at least one WDT, so that the SoC contains a lot of WDTs. The next table shows the characteristics of the different TKE instances.
- Table 9.18 TKE Instances
- Module
nT nW nDI nSI
- Remark
- Top
- System-level use cases, direct interrupts are from the WDTs only
- WDT0 IRQ/FIQ directly connected to CCPLEX GIC (bypassing LIC)
- WDT1 can be used as redundant to WDT0 or for software-defined use,
- IRQ/FIQ not connected
- WDT2 is the APE WDT for legacy reasons, IRQ/FIQ not connected
- One remote interrupt that aggregates the level 2 of all WDTs
- FSI
- Local timekeeping for the Cortex-R5 inside FSI and one WDT per CPU core
present in FSI (four Cortex-R52 and one Cortex-R5). Note that FSI TKE does not use tsc_ref_clk but the local OSC clock.

- Timers
- Module
nT nW nDI nSI
- Remark
- AON
(aka
- SPE)
- Local timekeeping, direct interrupts connected to local interrupt controller
except remote WDT interrupt.
- PVA{0} WDT does not connect its reset request signals as PVA is considered a
more deeply embedded processor whose failure does not warrant to ever automatically trigger a system reset.
- SCE
- BPMP
- APE
- PVA{0}
- RCE
- DCE
Software indicated a preference for only one WDT directly connected to CCPLEX as software treats the CCPLEX as a single coherent system. Software level techniques must be used to aggregate the status of cores currently managed by the coherent OS and only clear the WDT when all managed cores are operating correctly.
- Care must be taken to make sure that the AON instance can still operate correctly when
VDD_SOC is off and OSC is present, possibly only for a subset of internal configurations. All instances of TKE stop operating when the OSC is off and only the 32,768 Hz clock is active. This is true even for TKEs on the AO rail that remain powered.
- The NV timers inside Top TKE are used as wake timers for the CPU cores in some CCPLEX low
power states. Software uses one wake timer per CPU core, so the number of NV timers and interrupts is increased to at least 12 for Top TKE.
#### 9.3.2.2 TSC
The TSC logic operates in the AO domain.

- Timers
**Figure 9.18 TSC Generation**
A subset of MTSC is sent to RTC, allowing RTC to be optionally locked in frequency with TSC.
- For convenience, the microsecond counter with associated reference pulses generation is
instantiated inside the TSC logic, to share the same APB interface.
#### 9.3.2.3 Main TSC Generation
The main TSC is a high accuracy NCO operating on the 32,768 Hz clock. It supports frequency error correction by allowing the main TSC operation to track an accurate external reference if wanted. As the external reference is not hardware visible at the main TSC boundary, the tracking loop needs to be done in software.
- To support a very fine granularity for the frequency error correction, the main TSC uses a
programmable bit of the MTSC as the count enable for the rational divider controlling the adjust signal, this is equivalent to scaling the divider by powers of 2.
**Figure 9.19 Main TSC Generation**

- Timers
The main TSC's nominal frequency is programmable. The recommended value is 31.25 MHz so that the period (32 ns) is a power of 2.
- The MTSC nominal frequency is given by the formula below
The selected bit of MTSC must be correctly sampled (no frequency aliasing), bit[b] of MTSC can be interpreted as a square wave with frequency (Fout / 2 b+1 sampled by the 32,768 Hz clock. Correct detection of the edges require the sampling frequency to be at least twice the frequency of the sampled square wave, so: ) This can be solved for the value of b: Using the recommended target frequency of 31.25 MHz and the 32,768 Hz input clock frequency gives: The supported range for b is [9,16]. The width of the parameters of the adjustable rational divider with some extra margin, giving 24 bits for N0 and 12 bits for D0, but the exact structure of the NCO needs to take into account the fact that the ratio is larger than 1. The corresponding structure splits the ratio into an integer and fractional part, that is: The hardware directly uses R0, D0, and M0, with software responsible to calculate their correct value. The corresponding structure of the NCO is shown below, including the adjust capability, with a total of four software controlled parameters. The implementation further restricts A0 to be +1 or -1,

- Timers
A0 is the direction of the frequency correction while the magnitude of the correction is controlled by the parameters of the rational divider controlling the adjust frequency: N1, D1, and b.
**Figure 9.20 NCO Structure for MTSC Generation**
#### 9.3.2.4 Secondary TSC
Only OSC at 38.4 MHz with K = 1 is supported in the SoC. The secondary TSC is essentially a rational divider with adjust capabilities followed by a counter. In the normal operation, the counter increments by one for each rising edge of the divided clock, similar to previous chips. The secondary TSC always takes its initial value from the main TSC.
#### 9.3.2.5 External Reference Tracking
The secondary TSC can track an external reference instead of tracking the main TSC, in particular, the external reference can be an external input, typically the GPS PPS signal or the PTP signal received on an Ethernet port. Because the time interval between edges of the reference becomes much larger, the approach for adjusting must be modified to provide a finer control of the frequency of adjust signals sent to the CAR fractional divider.

- Timers
The approach is to use a fractional divided to generate the adjust frequency, with the hardware loop controlling the numerator. The denominator is sized to get a fine enough granularity based on the assumed maximum frequency drift rate to compensate. The tracking can only be done on one selected signal, but the tracking logic also provides the current difference between STSC and multiple references, as shown in the figure below. Note that one of the paths uses bits of MTSC for reference and replaces the tracking mechanism found in previous devices.
- The hardware locking mechanism also allows to start the TSC counter synchronously with the
external reference. This may be used as part of a hardware locked loop or to align the TSC value across different SoC devices. This is achieved by combining a hardware enable synchronized to the reference edge with the software controlled TSC enable bit.
**Figure 9.21 TSC Capture and Hardware Tracking**
The synchronized start logic enables TSC counting at the first reference edge after software sets the synchronized start enable bit. The same source selection is used for both the hardware locking logic and the synchronized start feature.

- Timers
**Figure 9.22 Synchronized Start Logic**
The phase difference measurement circuitry is shown below, it starts measuring at an arbitrary phase value, the current TSC value when the first edge after software sets the ALIGN bit.
**Figure 9.23 Measuring Phase Error for hardware Locking**
The following lists the signals that are used as reference signals, per branch:
- Branch GPS
A selected subset of the input signals to the AO cluster GTE. It is assumed that one of these GPIO is the GPS PPS, normally carried as a short pulse, and the rising edge must be used as reference.
- Branch PTX

- Timers
- The LSB of the PTP second counter in each Ethernet MAC that supports PTP. The PTP
standard requires to present the time as a mixed radix value of seconds and nanoseconds. This unfortunately means that bits of the nanoseconds counter are not all periodic, so each edge of the PTP second counter is used. This incidentally also matches the period (one second) of the PPS signal. A defined counter bit of the PTM reference counter of each PCIe controller (a priori PTM capture is only needed for PCIe controllers that can carry Ethernet data). The PTM counter is not mixed radix so there are no restriction on which bit of the counter to select, the bit must be selected to provide a toggle frequency in the range 1 to 100 Hz in nominal conditions
- Branch MTSC
A bit of MTSC, to support the legacy mechanism where TSC is locked on MTSC
- Branch MISC
- CK32 (used as a data signal)
The loop logic controls the sign and frequency of the adjust signal in the following way: The frequency of the adjust signal is controlled by a rational divider, with the numerator of the divider being the magnitude of the variable controlled by hardware, while the denominator is fixed to 2. Fixing the denominator to a power of 2 simplifies the logic. The sign of the variable controlled by hardware (possibly inverted for test purposes) is the sign of the adjust signal sent to CAR
- The adjustment of the numerator is done in this way
- If the magnitude of the phase difference is decreasing, do nothing
If the magnitude of the phase difference is increasing, increase or decrease the numerator by a programmable delta based on the current sign of the phase difference. The direction of the magnitude change is found by comparing two consecutive measurements of the phase difference. The above approach is stable but converges slowly and is combined with a fast convergence mode that works by directly calculating change in the adjust values. This requires a more complex algorithm, that considers the value of consecutive differences. Note that the algorithm could also be done via software (possibly using more complex extrapolation algorithms).
- The fast convergence operation is performed only when enabled and when the error or the
extrapolated error is large:
- At each capture edge, calculate an extrapolated error that would be the error at the next
capture edge if the adjust range was left unchanged, using the two last difference values measured Dextrapolated,i+1 = Di + (Di – Di-1) = 2Di – Di-1
- Calculates a delta to apply to the numerator as Dextrapolated,i+1 * K = dn if
abs(Dextrapolated,i+1) is larger than a configured threshold. The new numerator n i+1 = n i + dn (with saturation). K is a (fractional) scale factor provided by software, the value is provided

- Timers
as K = K_int * 2m with m configurable. To limit the complexity, K_int has not many bits as calculating the delta requires a multiplication followed by a left shift (the multiplication can be done serially bit per bit (speed is not important) or brute force parallel). The numerator must be saturated as the interface to CAR must maintain a distance of at least eight TSC cycles between adjust requests. The value dn is calculated to make the difference equal to 0 after one sample cycle. The K factor is determined by calculating the change in number of generated TSC cycles for an increase of dn in the numerator, across one capture cycle.
- Number of nominal TSC cycles in one capture cycle, Ftsc * Tref = Nref
- Changes in number of adjust cycles requested in one capture cycle, Nref * dn / AdjustDen =
- NAdj
- Changes in the number of TSC cycles generated for adjust of A per request, A * NAdj /
- CarTscDen = NTsc
Note: A is currently fixed at 1. dn is desired such that the extrapolated phase error after correction becomes 0, so
- Nref * dn / AdjustDen / CarTscDen= NTsc
dn = (AdjustDen * CarTscDen) / (Ftsc * Tref) NTsc = K NTsc K = (AdjustDen * CarTscDen) / (Ftsc * Tref) The programmed value should be slightly smaller than the value calculated above, e.g., by a factor of 0.9 as the estimate is approximate, so finally Kint * 2m = 0.9 * (AdjustDen * CarTscDen) / (Ftsc * Tref), with 2(w-1) <= Kint < 2w, where w is the bit width of Kint.
- The fast convergence mode is normally much better but makes more assumptions and is more
sensitive to misconfiguration up to becoming instable. The slow convergence makes almost no assumption, and is unconditionally stable if the step is small enough. The algorithm requires one multiplication, Delta_NUM = -((Extrapolated * Kint) << m)). The variable Extrapolated represents the expected phase error in TSC unit and should never be large. Also, the operation of the algorithm does not require an extremely high precision of the results, so Extrapolated is saturated to 14 bits and Kint is using eight bits, possibly allowing for a shift and add multiplier if wanted. The dimensioning for Extrapolated assumes that the maximum absolute difference during fast convergence does not exceed twice the accumulated error during one reference period, i.e., is less than 2 * Ftsc * Tref * relative frequency error = 2 * 31.25 MHz * 1 s * 50 ppm = 3125. This requires 13 bits as Extrapolated is a signed quantity, the implementation has one extra bit for margin.
#### 9.3.2.6 TSC Controlled Signals
TSC controlled signals extends the capability of placing interrupts at a known value of TSC and allows to place the edges of a limited number of signals at known values of TSC.

- Timers
The canonical example for the need of such feature is controlling the time positions of a light flash relative to the shutter opening of a sensor. In general, this can help when synchronization of multiple external devices must happen at known time relative to the internal software time base. In the SoC, the TSC block generates four independent signals, that are broadcast to a small number of pads. The target pads must use the standard pinmux logic, ideally with one available port or replacing an existing but not used port, as shown below. The first generator broadcasts its signal to four pins with stringent timing skew requirements, eliminating an external buffer. Other generators sent this signal to a single pin only.
**Figure 9.24 TSC Controlled Signals**
- The register interface is defined to allow the generation of simple waveforms with minimal
software complexity and make possible the generation of more complex sequences with more complex software:

- Timers
A generator always starts at a TSC value defined by a set of START registers. More than one register is needed because TSC values are 56 bits long.
- The START registers also define the initial level
A STATUS register allows software to follow the operation and to detect possible problem like the generator not starting because the START value is in the past.
- WAITING, indicates that the generator has started and is waiting for TSC to reach the
- START TSC value
- RUNNING, indicates that the generator is actively processing the EDGE registers
- EDGE_ID, which EDGE register is processed by the generator
- VALUE, current value present on the output
- INTERRUPT, current interrupt level
- Once the generator is started, it changes the level based on a set of EDGE registers, each
- EDGE register defines
- The OFFSET (in TSC unit) from the previous change at which to apply the actions defined
by the register A TOGGLE action bit, indicating if the signal must be toggled or not A STOP action bit, indication if the generator must be stopped after this edge A LOOP bit, indication that the next EDGE register to use should be back the first EDGE register, allowing to define a periodic pattern, STOP has precedence on LOOP. -
- If neither LOOP nor STOP are set, the next EDGE register is the next EDGE register (in
circular fashion), i.e., (i + 1) % N, where N is the number of EDGE registers implemented. A IRQ action bit, indicating if an interrupt must be reported to software after executing this step.
- With two EDGE registers, the following waveforms can be generated with minimal software
involvement:
- Single edge at a defined instant in the future, with optional interrupt
Single pulse with defined width that starts at a defined instant in the future, with optional interrupt Periodic pulse with defined width and repetition period future that starts at a defined instant in the future, with optional interrupt. Each generator implements eight EDGE registers, and the address space is structured to support easy extension to a much larger number. The structure of the EDGE registers allows them to be stored in a local memory if wanted. Software can define arbitrary sequences if it can modify EDGE registers fast enough, possibly in response to an interrupt. The next figure is an example of use that includes such a dynamic modification.

- Timers
**Figure 9.25 Use of TSC Controlled Generation Example**
#### 9.3.2.7 TSC Distribution Logic
The TSC distribution logic operates by replicating the TSC value at terminal nodes. This is achieved by broadcasting both RefClk and serialized synchronization messages to all terminal nodes, plus a Halt indication used to stop TSC during debug. This is transparent to software except for the need to enable the distribution function.
#### 9.3.2.8 Halting TSC During Debug
The Arm architecture supports halting TSC during debug, as a way to stop the timers dependent on TSC. This introduces problems in a complex SoC with multiple loosely coupled processors and TSC also used for timestamping operation. The following approaches tackle this issue:
- TSC terminal nodes support a third signal, Halt, so that they can be stopped without
stopping the TSC reference clock. Two different Halt modes are supported, with the selection being done by a bit present in the SYNC message The legacy mode is associated with value 0 of the selection bit (default), in that mode the
- TSC terminal node always honor SYNC messages when not Halted. This may trigger a jump
at the end of a Halt period

- Timers
- The alternate mode, aka no jump mode, is associated with value 1 of the selection bit. In
the no jump mode, the TSC terminal node enters a no jump state these two conditions are met - -
- At least one SYNC message was honored since reset deassertion
- Halt was asserted at least once since reset deassertion, with the no jump bit at 1
- In the no jump state, the TSC terminal node counts when Halt is deasserted, but
does not synchronize to subsequent SYNC messages. The end result is that all
- TSC terminal nodes always increment at the same rate when they are not halted,
and never experience any jump, but the TSC value can differ between different Halt domains.
- TSC and all TSC terminal nodes can be halted as before, using the existing HDBG
configuration bit.
- The CCPLEX timers can be halted without stopping TSC itself by specifically stopping the
- TSC terminal node(s) in CCPLEX
- All TSC terminal nodes in CCPLEX are hooked to a specific HaltCpu signal
A specific configuration to control the behavior: HDBG_CPU
- The register interface includes a STOP_CPU_TSC field that operates independently of the
debug mode as an alternate control method of stopping the CCPLEX TSC terminal nodes and thus, the CCPLEX timers.
- The TSC reference clock is never stopped
- The HALT signal is always asserted when TSC is disabled, otherwise the local time as shown
by terminal nodes unexpectedly keep counting. This is not a useful use case but is nevertheless tested as part of Arm compliance testing.
**Figure 9.26 Halt Generation Logic**

- Timers
The TSC visible to the CPU via the Arm generic timers differs from the TSC visible to other engines when using the no jump halt mode after the first HALT_CPU only period. Note: It is possible to define more independent controller Halt domains, but it is expected that only CCPLEX needs special handling, so only two modes of operations are defined, global Halt and CCPLEX only halt. The behavior is illustrated below.

- Timers
**Figure 9.27 Halt Modes**
- The halt mode is in line with Arm recommendations on the use of TSC; Arm recommends two
separate TSC, one which can be stopped during debug and one that never stops. Using the no jump mode with different HALT domains supports the Arm recommendation while insuring that any time

- Timers
a TSC terminal node counts, it counts at the same rate as the global TSC. The following two halt domains are supported:
- The TSC terminal nodes feeding the Arm generic timers associated with the CPU cores inside
- CCPLEX. These terminal nodes are connected to the CPU halt domain, the corresponding
DSU port is CNTVALUEB.
- All other TSC terminal nodes, including TSC terminal nodes inside CCPLEX used for program
tracing, the corresponding DSU port is TSVALUEB[63:0].
#### 9.3.2.9 Generic Timestamping Engine
The generic timestamping engine (GTE) is an IP block that can be instantiated where timestamping is performed by hardware instead of software. GTEs across the chip snoop a subset of signals:
- Interrupts, either close to LIC or close to AVIC inside a Cortex-R5 processor complex
- GPIO signals, especially for the sensor signals used by the SPE
The generic timestamping engine snoops a configurable set of signals, timestamps any change on them and presents the timestamped events to software via FIFOs and an APB interface. Care is taken to make the timestamping engine secure, i.e., to avoid security attacks through the use of timestamping. The generic timestamping engine is built from a configurable number (nTS) of timestamping slices, each slice built from a configurable number (nC) of capture slices, each capture slice able to snoop up to 32 signals, and an arbitration stage when there are more than one capture slice per timestamping slice. Each timestamping slice is normally associated with a different Main in the SoC in particular, to provide differentiated security. All timestamping slices share a common APB interface. The capture slice continuously monitors the set of enabled and not disabled inputs, if the current value is different from the last captured value and there is place in the capture FIFO:
- The captured value is updated to be the current value
- The current and last captured value is placed in the FIFO together with the slice ID and
enough LSB of the TSC to allow a correct disambiguation of the timestamp later on. If multiple capture slices are present, an arbitration stage merges the different capture slices into a common output FIFO. Each output slice then presents the timestamping records to software via a set of access registers. Each timestamping slice has its own set of access registers to allow for differentiated security, but all timestamping slices share a common APB interface. Each timestamping slice can also generate an interrupt based on the FIFO occupancy; that interrupt may or not be connected to an interrupt controller. The access registers can present the capture records either in raw form or as a set of individual bit changes.

- Timers
##### 9.3.2.9.1 Encoded Form for Captured Information
The raw information contains the current and previously captured value of the signals in the slice as a bitmap. Encoding transforms that into a sequence of changes. This is done by:
- XORing the previous and current values to calculate a change bitmap
Iterating a procedure that: Finds the lowest index of a bit at 1 in the change bitmap, providing the index and the value of the bit in a register, plus the slice number. Clears the corresponding bit from the change bit map until the change bitmap is zero. The index provides the full information about the signal captured; the register fields are defined so that the combination (slice number, bit index) gives the interrupt number.
##### 9.3.2.9.2 General Structure of GTE
The general structure of the GTE is shown in the figure below.
**Figure 9.28 Generic Timestamping Engine**

- Timers
There are multiple instances of the GTE. Each instance has a width defined by a number of 32-bit slices (nC). Some instances are paired to support multiple levels of security.
- Table 9.19 GTE Instances
- Module
- Paired
nC
- Remark
- LIC
- Yes
13+2 A pair of GTE for interrupt timestamping between LIC and GIC. Note that local GIC interrupts are not timestamped.
- Extra two slices for timestamping of top level peripherals
or other top level signals.
- BPMP
- No
- Timestamping the local interrupts, i.e., the inputs to
the AVIC.
- SCE
- No
- PVA{0}
- No
- RCE
- No
- DCE
- No
- AON
- No
- Timestamping the local interrupts, i.e., the inputs to
the VIC, plus a small subset of GPIOs. The two lower slices are reserved for local interrupts, the third one for GPIOs. In Orin, the following rules are followed to make the mapping between source signals and GTE input numbering more deterministic and stable:
- When timestamping interrupts, the GTE slice mapping is one to one with the corresponding
interrupt slice, so that the interrupt numbering and GTE signal numbering are identical. In particular, reserved interrupt IDs become reserved GTE signal IDs and are not reused for other purpose, helping forward compatibility.
- Slices used for GPIO signals are mapped based on information contained in the GPIO
configuration file; this indirectly also provides the mapping from GTE input number to a corresponding pin. Note: All interrupt controllers are organized in slices, the GTE slice structure was patterned to reflect that approach.
#### 9.3.2.10 RefClk Source Change Logic
The recommended usage model is to always use OSC (at 38.4 MHz) and with K=1 always.
#### 9.3.2.11 Power Management
The TSC logic is not power gated but implements clock gating. Note that as it provides an SoC-wide timing reference, TSC is normally always enabled.

- Timers
The secondary TSC and TSC distribution logic can not work when the OSC is disabled, as RefClk is not available then. OSC is disabled in some of the deep sleep states, with only 32,768 Hz present. This is true for some variants of SC7. The transitions to and from the deep sleep states that disable the OSC circuitry are controlled by the PMC logic. The PMC logic handshakes with TSC, to allow for a clean shutdown and restart of the secondary TSC as well as TSC distribution in case OSC is stopped in the target power state.
- Entering a deep sleep mode where OSC is to be stopped
- PMC asserts a deep sleep request signal while OSC and RefClk are still running
- TSC stops the secondary TSC and the distribution logic, then assert a deep sleep status
signal to PMC
- Stopping is logically equivalent to disabling these blocks via the software control bits
- PMC can now stop OSC and indirectly stops RefClk
- Exiting a deep sleep mode where OSC already stopped
- PMC restarts OSC and indirectly restarts RefClk, and waits until OSC is stable
- PMC deasserts the deep sleep request signal
- TSC restarts the secondary TSC and the TSC distribution logic if their respective software
enable bits is set Restarting the secondary TSC requires an initialization, the main TSC value is copied to the secondary TSC counter at the next edge of the 32,768 Hz clock
- Restarting the TSC distribution preferably includes sending a synchronization message as
soon as possible
- TSC deasserts the deep sleep status signal to PMC
The whole sequence is similar to the sequence used for Arm processors. The handshake must also work even when TSC itself is disabled, to avoid blocking the forward progress of the PMC state machine. This may require providing a non-gateable clock to the handshake logic.

- Timers
**Figure 9.29 Deep Sleep Handshake with PMC**
#### 9.3.2.12 Real Time Clock
The internal Real Time Clock (RTC) is a real-time clock in the AO partition that measures elapsed time since the last cold boot and is not affected by SC7 entry/exit transitions. Note that the PMIC also generally provides an external RTC with better robustness (not affected by the cold boot of the SoC). The RTC accumulates real time in a mixed radix format of seconds (32 bits) and milliseconds (10 bits), it operates on the 32,768 Hz clock and can take its reference from the 32,768 Hz clock itself or TSC.

- Timers
The seconds counter can be updated by software to provide an initial offset different from zero at initialization, and later updates sticky disabled for security. The RTC provides different alarms that can be used as interrupts or SC7 wake signals. The RTC also provides a safety reference counter, with no configuration whatsoever that can be used to check the correct operating frequency of other TKEs.
- RTC logic operates in the 32,768 Hz clock domain, and software must take into account when
accessing RTC registers. In particular, the RTC module maintains a ‘busy’ status register bit which is set (1’b1) while a register write is being transferred. Software must not send a write when this bit is set (this requires write accesses to the RTC to be protected by a resource semaphore if more than two agents are allowed to access the RTC). The RTC maintains a count of seconds and milliseconds since the last cold reset. It can select between the 32,768 Hz clock and MTSC as time base. The only difference is the first NCO stage, the rest of the logic is independent of the selected reference. The logic itself always operates at the 32,768 Hz clock.
**Figure 9.30 RTC Generation**
The RTC block also contains alarms implemented by comparison between a target value and the current RTC value. The RTC value is exported to SPE where it is used to generate local alarms on top of the alarms supported in RTC itself. For safety related purposes, the RTC also provides a reference counter, always enabled, that increments at each rising edge of the 32,768 Hz clock. This can be used as a safety reference to assess the health of other timing elements. This reference counter is never halted, especially it is not stopped during debug and has no configuration. RTC is not configurable but is instanced inside the AO partition, the same as in previous devices. It also contains the AOWDT.

- Timers
#### 9.3.2.13 Always On WatchDog Timer
A watchdog timer (WDT) is provided in the Always On (AO) power domain, with the following rationale: Its operation is not dependent on OSC; it only requires the 32,768 Hz clock and the main TSC to be active. The timer can be used to detect and flag SC7 related issues, such as an inability to wake up. Using a different clock source and voltage domain for this time can be used for safety diversity. The AO WDT requirements are only slightly different from a standard WDT: Operates on the 32,768 Hz clock, so that it can operate continuously, including during power states where OSC is OFF when WDT operation is suspended. The actions associated with some expiration levels are redefined as wake events: Expiration level 2 asserts a standard wake signal.
- Expiration level 3 asserts a wake signal that also clears the PMC scratch register info
indicating warm boot. The debug reset associated with expiration level 4, while connected, must not be used. The AO WDT reuses the implementation of the TKE WDT, including the register interface; the only changes are in the inputs and outputs connected to it, especially the operating clock.
#### 9.3.2.14 Microsecond Counter and Time Reference Pulses Generation
- The USEC module broadcasts periodic pulses with 1 microsecond and 1 millisecond periods,
allowing time to be measured in a platform-independent way. USEC operates on OSC to allow operation when no PLL is active. The time base can be OSC itself or TSC, and USEC also maintains a counter of elapsed microseconds.
- While USEC operates in the AO partition, it relies on OSC for its operation and so may be
suspended in some power states where RTC keeps counting, and so USEC and RTC are complementary, not redundant.
**Figure 9.31 Reference Pulses Generation and Microsecond Counter**

- Timers
#### 9.3.2.15 TKE Module
NV Timers (TMRs) and Watchdog Timers (WDTs) are instantiated as part of a TKE module. There are nT timers and nW watchdog timers per TKE. Each TKE also includes registers to make different measures of time available: OSC, microsecond counter, and TSC. This access is low latency to the local processor. Finally, each TKE can optionally contain an interrupt routing function, this is only present for the TKE instantiated at the top level to limit the number of top-level interrupts. For debug purposes, the TKE operation can optionally be halted during debug. This is especially important to suspend the operation of enabled WDTs that could otherwise reset the system while debug is in progress.
##### 9.3.2.15.1 NV Timer
Each NV timer is a general-purpose timer with the following characteristics:
- Downcounter of 29 bits generating an interrupt when reaching zero
The decrement rate is on a configurable reference:
- At 1 MHz, as defined by the 1 MHz reference pulse
- At OSC rate
- On any edge of TSC[0], so normally at the recommended 31.25 MHz TSC update rate
- On any edge of TSC[12], so normally at 31.25 MHz / 4096, about 7.63 kHz
Optionally operates in periodic mode, i.e., automatically reload the start value when reaching zero The ability to select the timebase for each timer independently may be of assistance in functional safety applications.
##### 9.3.2.15.2 Optional Interrupt Routing
The interrupt routing block takes the set of interrupts present in the TKE and aggregates them in a configurable fashion into nSI shared interrupts. This is only present for the top-level TKE and the shared interrupts are connected to the LIC in that case. The number of (internal) interrupts inside a TKE is dependent on the number of NV timers and WDT:
- Each NV timer has one associated interrupt, set when the downcounter reaches 0
Each WDT has three associated interrupts, one for each of the three first expirations of the
- WDT
The interrupt logic uses nSI masks, each containing (nT + 3 * nW) bits. Each mask selects which local interrupt are included in the corresponding shared interrupt. The interrupt logic also exposes interrupt status registers to software.

- Timers
##### 9.3.2.15.3 Watchdog Timer
A general view of the WDT logic is shown below.
**Figure 9.32 WDT Structure**
The watchdog mechanism operates in the following way:
- Each processor complex is associated with one WDT. For the CCPLEX, all cores are in the
same coherency domain and are considered as one SMP processor for software purposes; i.e., all cores inside CCPLEX are associated with the same WDT (WDT0 in the Top TKE). Select as reference time base either:
- Any of the timer zero pulses
A transition on any bit in a defined subset of the bits of the local TSC counter Having more than one reference source may be used for the safety requirements for diversity.
- Implements a periodic downcounter decrementing at the selected rate. The downcounter
generates an expiration event when it reaches zero.
- At each expiration, the WDT increases the expiration level, saturating at level 5
- The increase may be larger than 1, the exact increase is configurable per expiration level
- The WDT logic can assert specific output signals based on the current expiration
- For the first three expiration levels, the WDT can assert a corresponding interrupt, each
with a specific use:

- Timers
- If the expiration level is 1 or more, a normal priority interrupt (IRQ) directly routed to the associated processor complex. This may be used to restart the timer inside an interrupt handler in non-safety critical applications. If the expiration level is 2 or more, a high priority interrupt (FIQ) directly routed to the associated processor complex. In Android, the corresponding interrupt handler assumes the system is in a bad state and captures some state information for a potential post mortem analysis. The interrupt handler may not attempt to correct the problem.
- If the expiration level is 3 or more, a normal interrupt (IRQ) routed to the LIC and from
there routed to a set of processors, this is meant to trigger system wide actions, in particular recovery actions of the processor associated with the WDT. This is also known as a remote interrupt. - - If the expiration level transitions from a value strictly below 4 to a value above or equal to 4, the WDT can assert a system wide debug reset. When debug is allowed, this reset can be intercepted by debug logic, and specific actions taken to preserve information about the state of the system before reset assertion clears them, allowing for post-mortem debug analysis. In particular, DFD logic attempts to flush the processor caches and local memories to DRAM, save processor state, and put the DRAM in self-refresh before allowing the reset to take effect. WDT and CAR logic uses a four phase handshake to communicate the WDT debug reset request. If the expiration level is 5, the WDT can assert a system wide reset, equivalent to a Power On Reset, this reset can optionally include a PMIC power cycling depending on the configuration in PMC. This is the last safety net for recovery purposes, attempting to bring the system to a working state without any specific attempt at preserving information. Each WDT signals an error to the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM) when its expiration level is greater or equal than a programmable threshold. Orin supports a force error command for testing; software must not issue any restart command while error forcing takes place. The watchdog timer supports a configurable restart mechanism. These features are disabled by default for backwards compatibility.
- The counter can only be optionally restarted in defined windows of time instead of at any
time
- Two window mechanisms with different granularity are supported, with coarse and fine
granularity. The window mechanism is a safety requirement.
- The counter can only be optionally restarted or disabled using a Challenge/Response pair
(also known as Question/Answer, QA). In previous chips, only disabling required an unlock using a simpler fixed pattern unlock. The challenge/response mechanism is a safety requirement to avoid unexpected deactivation of a WDT. The windowing operation works like this:
- Optionally enabled, normal operation is windowless and the WDT can be restarted at any
time. When enabled, a restart of the timer is disabled:

- Timers
- For a programmable set of expiration levels. This is achieved by disabling writes to the
COMMAND register based on a bitmap of disallowed expiration levels.
- When outside an allowed window as measured by the combination of expiration level and
downcounter, as shown in the figure below.
**Figure 9.33 Fine-Grained WDT Windowing Mechanism**
The Challenge/Response works like this:
- Optionally enabled, normal operation does not use Challenge/Response, unlocking is done by
writing using a known fixed pattern to the unlock register address. When enabled, a restart is achieved only after unlocking via a Challenge/Response.
- The Challenge is that a Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR) value, present in the Unlock
register and reading the Unlock register, is mandatory as the implementation is allowed to use the read to alter internal state. The Response is the next value of the LFSR that needs to be written in the Unlock register. The LFSR is (re)initialized with the value written to the Unlock register. Note that this is equivalent to advancing the LFSR if the unlock was successful. 0 is an allowed value that can be used for testing, the successor of 0 is 0. The LFSR uses the classic CRC-32 polynomial operating in shift right (reversed) direction; that is, the next value is calculated as LFSR = (LFSR >> 1) ^ ((LFSR & 0x1) ? 0xEDB88320 : 0). When locked, the Command register cannot be written. An incorrect restart attempt can optionally result in an immediate jump in the expiration level. This is normally used to immediately trigger a reset condition when the WDT is used as a safety- relevant WDT. For safety, the WDT enable is controlled by two bits, normal and sticky, and the platform policy can decide which to use, i.e., if a WDT may or not be disabled once enabled. The use of the sticky enable, making it impossible to disable the WDT until the next reset, is a safety requirement. There is a watchdog timer in the Always On partition, that AO WDT is only reset by an external hardware Power On Reset, i.e., it is never disabled by a reset triggered by an SoC WD timer. The AO

- Timers
- WDT has the same structure as the SoC WDTs but with different wiring of some inputs and
outputs. WDTs can optionally be halted during debug; WDT operation may also be suspended when one or more of the TKE clocks is suspended. This can happen for a standard WDT during some low-power states where OSC is stopped; for example, AO WDT is specifically present to continue working during these power states. The SoC supports a modified mechanism to stop all WDTs, similar to the ability to stop all timers. The request comes on a wire broadcast to all TKEs (and AOWDTs). The request is further qualified by the local debug enable signal. Each WDT adds a configuration bit to allow/disallow stopping the WDT, allowed after reset but can be switched to disallow for safety use cases. Each WDT also includes a status bit indicating if it is currently frozen. The local debug enable signal is connected to the invasive debug enable for the processor cluster associated with the TKE:
- CCPLEX DBGEN signal for top TKE: global_dbgen
- Cortex-R5 DBGEN for a Cortex-R5 cluster: {bpmp, spe, sce, rce, dce, pva{0}}_dbgen
- A9 DBGEN for APE cluster: ape_dbgen
- DBGEN connected to SPE for AOWDT: spe_dbgen
Note that this mechanism makes the use of the configuration bit disabling freeze optional in safety applications. It is recommended to leave that bit at 0b.

- Timers
**Figure 9.34 Example Timeline for Watchdog Operation**
The WDT timers are reset on L2 reset except the AOWDT that is reset on L1 only. The reset requests are individually exposed as ports, even when multiple WDT share the same TKE as the reset source must be captured for use by software.
#### 9.3.2.16 Generic Timers
Arm Generic Timer (GT) architecture defines timers to be used by Arm CPUs. This architecture uses the system wide timing reference called Timestamp System Counter (TSC) that increases at a constant rate. This allows the Generic Timers inside a CPU cluster to operate correctly without reconfiguration when the CPU frequency changes. The Arm Generic Timer includes the following features: Physical counter that contains the count value of the system-counter.
- Virtual counter that indicates virtual time. The virtual counter contains the value of the
physical counter minus a 64-bit virtual offset. Multiple timers per CPU (the exact set depends on the core configuration):
- EL1 physical timer
- Non-secure EL2 physical timer
- EL3 physical timer

- Timers
- EL1 virtual timer
- Non-secure EL2 virtual timer
- Secure EL2 virtual timer
- Secure EL2 physical timer
- The Arm architectural specification includes a mandatory (CNTCTLBase) registers frame that
provides configuration information related to Arm generic timers implemented in MMIO fashion;
- The SoC does not currently have these registers (all Arm generic timers present use system
registers). Full details about the operation of the Generic Timers were introduced in different Arm documents and are now part of the Arm Architecture Reference Manual.
#### 9.3.2.17 Cortex-A9 Timers
The Cortex-A9 complex inside the APE contains an instance of a Cortex-A9 timer block, including the following:
- Global timer, a 64-bit incrementing counter
- Per CPU core private timer, a 32-bit decrementing counter with optional prescaler
- Per CPU core watchdog timer. It has the same structure as a private timer augmented with
watchdog capabilities and can be used as a second private timer. The Cortex-A9 WDT reset request signal is not connected. All these timers operate on the Cortex-A9 clock, making them difficult to use for real-time purposes when the Cortex-A9 clock is subject to DVFS. The APE cluster includes a TKE (not affected by DVFS) and APE software usually do not use at all the Cortex-A9 timers.
#### 9.3.2.18 Functional Safety Island Timers
The Functional Safety Island (FSI) takes over most of the functions of the external safety MCU. The FSI requires two timer modules: A global system counter, matching the Arm generic timer architecture; this is done reusing some of the TSC building blocks. A TKE that provides timers for the Cortex-R5 (similar to Cortex-R5 clusters on the SoC side) or Cortex-R52 (generic Arm timers part of the Cortex-R52 cluster itself). In addition, at least one WDT per CPU core (five WDTs: four Cortex-R52 and one Cortex-R5), as each core could run as an independent software entity. To limit complexity, all timer elements run on the FSI local crystal clock, this simplifies the CAR logic and remove the need for TSC terminal nodes, as explained later on. The overall timer infrastructure logic inside FSI is illustrated below.

- Timers
**Figure 9.35 FSI Timer Infrastructure**
The FSI module is relatively small, so TSC distribution does not need to cover large distances and the TSC value is only distributed to very few endpoints, so TSC is distributed in parallel binary format, with retime stages if needed. The FSI operates at ASIL-D, this is achieved by using software consistency to check the different timer operations, register parity for all configuration registers and hardware watchdog timers.
##### 9.3.2.18.1 FSI-TSC
The FSI-TSC implements a simplified TSC that performs the following functions:
- Supports the Arm architecture registers, except for TrustZone specific requirements
- Note: The Arm architecture requirements define some registers as TrustZone accessible
only; this is not possible for R class Arm CPU cores that do not support TrustZone. Maintains a 56 bit counter, in steps of 32 ns. This is nominally the same rate as the SoC side TSC.

- Timers
Distribute the 56 bit counter in parallel binary format to the rest of the FSI logic, especially the local TKE, the CAN modules and the Cortex-R52 cores
- Also implements the USEC related counter and signals and sends the usec reference pulse to
the local TKE and the FSI fabric, and the msec reference pulse to the local GPIO controller. The FSI-TSC logic operates directly on the FSI XTAL clock (also known as OSC) working with 40 MHz, there is no 31.25 MHz clock and so no CAR level divider to generate such a clock. The following figure shows the block diagram, showing how the SoC side TSC is modified to get the FSI-TSC.
**Figure 9.36 FSI-TSC Block Diagram (Showing Similarities with SoC Side TSC)**
##### 9.3.2.18.2 Registers and APB Interface
FSI-TSC has the same register windows as the SoC counterpart:
- The Arm defined windows, arfsi_tsc_sysctr{0,1,2} are strictly identical to the equivalent
SoC side windows, except that there is no TrustZone support.
- The NVIDIA implementation window, arfsi_tsc is much simpler than the SoC side and detailed
below.
- The USEC address window, arfsi_usec_cntr is identical to the equivalent SoC side window,
except reset values. Note that to fit in the FSI Low Latency Peripheral address range, the different TSC windows are mapped on consecutive 4 KiB windows, not 64 KiB as on the SoC side. Offsets inside each window are unchanged. This is possible as support for page based address virtualization is not needed in

- Timers
the FSI partition. Also, the SCR registers are not present, protection is done via one BLF per window. The FSI-TSC implementation window contains the same registers as defined for the Main TSC, but with different default values, as summarized below. Values highlighted correspond to differences in reset values from the SoC side.
- Register: FTSCACR, RW, equivalent to MTSACR, TSC Adjust Control Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- ABS
7:4
- Adjust Bit Select, an edge on MTSC[9+ABS]
triggers one adjust operation
- DIR
- Direction of the adjustment, 0 indicates A0 = -1, 1
indicates A0 = +1
- EN
- Enables frequency error correction
- Register: FTSCADR, RW, equivalent to MTSCADR, TSC Adjust Divider Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- D1
27:16
- Numerator of the adjust NCO
- N1
11:0
- Denominator of the adjust NCO
Register: FTSCANNR, RW, equivalent to MTSCANNR, TSC Adjustable NCO Numerator Register, different reset values
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- M0
27:16
- Fractional part of the numerator of the adjustable NCO
- R0
11:0
- Integer part of the numerator of the adjustable NCO
Register: FTSCANDR, RW, equivalent to MTSCANDR, TSC Adjustable NCO Denominator Register, different reset value
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- D0
11:0
- Denominator of the adjustable NCO

- Timers
Register: FTSC MTSCCNTCV{0,1}, RO, equivalent to TSC_MTSCCNTCV{0,1}, TSC Counter Count Value Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- CV
31:0 {0}
- Numerator of the adjust NCO
The FSI USEC window is also identical to the SoC counterpart except for some reset values.
- Register: USECCVR, RO, Microsecond Counter Value Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- CNT
31:0
- Number of usec pulses since last system reset
- Register: USECCCR, Microsecond Counter Configuration Register, different reset values
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- Dividend
15:8
- Numerator is Dividend + 1, aka N
- Divisor
7:0
- Denominator is Divisor + 1, default value
corresponds to 40 MHz OSC
- Register: USECCRSR, Microsecond Counter Reference Selection Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- MBS
5:4
- TSC Bit Select, TSC[1+MBS] edge used as reference
when not free running.
- FR
- Free Running, controls the microsecond counter TSC
lock behavior
- When 0b, the microsecond locks the usec reference
pulse to a selected bit of TSC[4:1] using the adjust signal, this is the recommended mode
- When 1b, usec counter counts on each edge of OSC in
free running fashion, legacy mode

- Timers
- Register: USECCFR, Microsecond Counter Freeze Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- HDBG
- Halt-on-debug. Controls whether a Halt-on-debug
signal halts the microsecond and associated divider logic 0: Microsecond counter ignores Halt-on-debug. 1: Asserted Halt-on-debug signal halts the ration divider, automatically stopping the microsecond counter and the timing reference signals.
##### 9.3.2.18.3 System Counter
- The system counter reuses the Main TSC logic from the SoC side but running at 40 MHz. The
diagram below is identical to the Main TSC Generation figure. The only change is a different target operating frequency.
**Figure 9.37 FSI-TSC Generation**
##### 9.3.2.18.4 TSC Distribution
The TSC value generated by the system counter is broadcast in parallel binary format to all TSC endpoints: Cortex-R52 cluster, FSI-TKE, and CAN. Retime stages are allowed and inserted as required by physical design rules. If the endpoint operates on a clock different from FSI OSC, the TSC value is passed through a Clock Domain Crossing element.
##### 9.3.2.18.5 USEC Functions
The USEC functions are identical to the SoC counterpart, except again for the operating frequency, as shown in the diagram below.

- Timers
**Figure 9.38 FSI Reference Pulses Generation and Microsecond Counter**
##### 9.3.2.18.6 FSI-TKE
The FSI-TKE is a standard instance of TKE, with four NV timers and five Watchdog Timers, but with the refclk input connected to the FSI crystal clock. This difference is transparent to hardware, in particular, the TSC input remains synchronous with the operating clock. The TKE logic includes CDC for the other two counters, these become unnecessary but are kept to maximize reuse. The figure below is derived from the TimeKeeping Element IP Module figure with the optional interrupt routing removed (not present in FSI-TKE), the correct number of timers and WDTs shown and the now unnecessary CDC highlighted.
**Figure 9.39 FSI Reference Pulses Generation and Microsecond Counter (without Interrupt**
- Routing)

- Timers
As this is a standard instance, the registers are mapped in 64 KiB pages and include the legacy SCR, even if SCR are useless inside FSI. The different 64 KiB pages also get each a dedicated BLF to implement correct access rights. The WDT error signals are directly connected to the FSI HSM. The WDT debug reset requests originating in the FSI TKE are routed to PMC, i.e., outside FSI. The different interrupts are connected in the following fashion; this also implies the allocation of timers and WDTs across the two processor clusters present in the FSI:
- Timers 0 and 1 interrupts to the GIC of the Cortex-R52 processor cluster
- Timers 2 and 3 interrupts to the AVIC of the CHSM cluster
- WDTs {0-3} IRQ and FIQ forwarded to the GIC of the Cortex-R52 processor cluster
- WDT 4 IRQ and FIQ forwarded to the AVIC of the CHSM cluster
- Aggregated remote interrupt of all WDTs, forwarded to be the GIC of the Cortex-R52
processor cluster and the AVIC of the CHSM cluster. The remote interrupt is also forwarded to the DFD Cross Trigger Interface (CTI) for debug. Note that the FIQ are sent as active low signals for legacy reasons, they can be inverted to active high signal on their way to the different interrupt controllers.
#### 9.3.2.19 TSC Update Frequency
The recommended frequency is 31.25 MHz, or equivalently, a 32 ns period.
##### 9.3.2.19.1 TSC Update Frequency Starting from PLLP
- The cardinality of the operands, Numerator (N) and Denominator (D), for the secondary TSC
rational divider in path 0 is dependent on the division performed in the CAR divider. The ratio is the product of the CAR divider ratio times the rational divider ratio. At least a factor of two is mandatory, whereas the divide-by-2 case is preferred but the by-4 case is also allowed.
- Table 9.20 Configuration to Generate 31.25 MHz
- CAR Frequency/31.25 MHz
- CAR Period, also Induced
- Jitter (ns)
- Ratio
# of Bits (N,D)
- CAR Divider
- CAR Frequency
(MHz) (7,10) 4.902 (7,9) 9.804

- Timers
- The (N,D) of the table above are held in
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_HS_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_HS_DIV_DIVIDEND (N)
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_HS_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_HS_DIV_DIVISOR (D)
See Clock Controller and Reset (CAR) chapter for details.
##### 9.3.2.19.2 TSC Update Frequency Starting from OSC
- The cardinality of the operands, Numerator (N) and Denominator (D), for the secondary TSC
rational divider in path 1 is constrained by the required support for a set of possible OSC frequencies. The table below shows the input frequency OSC_DIV (OSC frequency, 38.4 MHz, divided by 1) and the corresponding Rational Divider Parameters for the Update Frequency 31.25 MHz (F).
- Table 9.21 TSC Rational Divider Parameters
- OSC_Div (MHz)
K F/K (F/K) / OSC_Div
- Ratio
# of Bits (N,D)
## 38.4 (38.4 / 1)
31.25 (10,10)
- The (N,D) of the table above are held in
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_OSC_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_OSC_DIV_DIVIDEND
(N)
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_OSC_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_OSC_DIV_DIVISOR
(D) See Clock Controller and Reset (CAR) chapter for details.
#### 9.3.2.20 Safety Mechanism
The following blocks support register parity and send the parity error signals to an error collator:
- RTC
- TSC
- USEC
They are all inside the Always-On cluster and share the Always-On cluster error collator with similar modules. The Always-On cluster error collator forwards an aggregated error signal to the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM).

- Timers
All hardware watchdog timers also generate an error signal when their expiration level is above a programmed threshold. This error signal is directly connected to the HSM without going through an error collator.}(@{Key=9.3.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=The common reference for all timers is a frequency corrected version of the 32,768 Hz input clock. When operated in locked mode, the timers operate as a hierarchy shown below. When locking is not enabled, the different timers operate independently.

- Timers
**Figure 9.16 Timer Hierarchy**
All Time-Keeping Elements (TKEs) in the SoC can be traced to the OSC or 32,768 Hz clocks. All TKEs, except TSC, can optionally take TSC as their timing reference to ensure a universal timebase. This, however, is not a mandatory mode of operation (see figure above).

- Timers
- Locking the reference happens via a Numerically Controlled Oscillator (NCO), i.e., a phase
accumulator. An NCO can be coupled with a very simple loop filter to lock its frequency to a reference.
#### 9.3.2.1 Hierarchical Grouping
- For ease of use, NV timers and WDTs are provided in a packaged module called Time-Keeping
Element (TKE). The general TKE structure is shown below.
**Figure 9.17 Timekeeping Element IP Module**
A TKE contains the following elements: A TSC value synchronized to the TKE clock. The TSC value is used both for the operation of the timers inside the TKE and exposed in software readable registers (providing a low-latency path for TSC access by a local processor). The TSC value comes in parallel format, normally from a TSC terminal node. The terminal node could be used by other blocks and is not instantiated inside the TKE itself.
- Local microsecond and OSC counters, also synchronized to the TKE clock. These counters are
used for the operation of the timers and exposed in software readable registers. Contrary to the TSC, the microsecond and OSC counters in different TKE modules are not aligned to a common Main via hardware mechanisms.

- Timers
A programmable number of NV timers, nT, at maximum 16. A programmable number of watchdog timers, nW, at maximum four, when using shared interrupts. An optional interrupt routing block, with nSI shared interrupts.
- An APB interface
A TKE module exposes as outputs: A set of interrupts
- The complete set of raw interrupts are always present. But only a smaller number, nDI, may
be connected to an interrupt controller A set of aggregated and routed interrupts when the interrupt routing block is present A set of WDT reset request interface signals, connected only when required. TKE has the following configuration parameters:
- The number of NV timers, nT
- The number of watchdog timers, nW
- The number of directly connected interrupts, nDI, range[0, nT+3nW]
- The number of shared interrupts, nSI
Note: nSI > 0 implies TKE instantiates interrupt routing logic in the TKE common logic. When nSI is > 0 and the interrupt routing logic is present, nT must be in the range [0,16] and nW in the range [0,4] to fit into the interrupt status register. If nSI == 0, the interrupt status register is not present and there is no a priori limit on the TKE configuration. Only three different configurations (three flavors) are used across all instances, one for top, one for
- FSI and one for everything else. All flavors have nT an even number to allow for software
consistency when needed. Each TKE also contains at least one WDT, so that the SoC contains a lot of WDTs. The next table shows the characteristics of the different TKE instances.
- Table 9.18 TKE Instances
- Module
nT nW nDI nSI
- Remark
- Top
- System-level use cases, direct interrupts are from the WDTs only
- WDT0 IRQ/FIQ directly connected to CCPLEX GIC (bypassing LIC)
- WDT1 can be used as redundant to WDT0 or for software-defined use,
- IRQ/FIQ not connected
- WDT2 is the APE WDT for legacy reasons, IRQ/FIQ not connected
- One remote interrupt that aggregates the level 2 of all WDTs
- FSI
- Local timekeeping for the Cortex-R5 inside FSI and one WDT per CPU core
present in FSI (four Cortex-R52 and one Cortex-R5). Note that FSI TKE does not use tsc_ref_clk but the local OSC clock.

- Timers
- Module
nT nW nDI nSI
- Remark
- AON
(aka
- SPE)
- Local timekeeping, direct interrupts connected to local interrupt controller
except remote WDT interrupt.
- PVA{0} WDT does not connect its reset request signals as PVA is considered a
more deeply embedded processor whose failure does not warrant to ever automatically trigger a system reset.
- SCE
- BPMP
- APE
- PVA{0}
- RCE
- DCE
Software indicated a preference for only one WDT directly connected to CCPLEX as software treats the CCPLEX as a single coherent system. Software level techniques must be used to aggregate the status of cores currently managed by the coherent OS and only clear the WDT when all managed cores are operating correctly.
- Care must be taken to make sure that the AON instance can still operate correctly when
VDD_SOC is off and OSC is present, possibly only for a subset of internal configurations. All instances of TKE stop operating when the OSC is off and only the 32,768 Hz clock is active. This is true even for TKEs on the AO rail that remain powered.
- The NV timers inside Top TKE are used as wake timers for the CPU cores in some CCPLEX low
power states. Software uses one wake timer per CPU core, so the number of NV timers and interrupts is increased to at least 12 for Top TKE.
#### 9.3.2.2 TSC
The TSC logic operates in the AO domain.

- Timers
**Figure 9.18 TSC Generation**
A subset of MTSC is sent to RTC, allowing RTC to be optionally locked in frequency with TSC.
- For convenience, the microsecond counter with associated reference pulses generation is
instantiated inside the TSC logic, to share the same APB interface.
#### 9.3.2.3 Main TSC Generation
The main TSC is a high accuracy NCO operating on the 32,768 Hz clock. It supports frequency error correction by allowing the main TSC operation to track an accurate external reference if wanted. As the external reference is not hardware visible at the main TSC boundary, the tracking loop needs to be done in software.
- To support a very fine granularity for the frequency error correction, the main TSC uses a
programmable bit of the MTSC as the count enable for the rational divider controlling the adjust signal, this is equivalent to scaling the divider by powers of 2.
**Figure 9.19 Main TSC Generation**

- Timers
The main TSC's nominal frequency is programmable. The recommended value is 31.25 MHz so that the period (32 ns) is a power of 2.
- The MTSC nominal frequency is given by the formula below
The selected bit of MTSC must be correctly sampled (no frequency aliasing), bit[b] of MTSC can be interpreted as a square wave with frequency (Fout / 2 b+1 sampled by the 32,768 Hz clock. Correct detection of the edges require the sampling frequency to be at least twice the frequency of the sampled square wave, so: ) This can be solved for the value of b: Using the recommended target frequency of 31.25 MHz and the 32,768 Hz input clock frequency gives: The supported range for b is [9,16]. The width of the parameters of the adjustable rational divider with some extra margin, giving 24 bits for N0 and 12 bits for D0, but the exact structure of the NCO needs to take into account the fact that the ratio is larger than 1. The corresponding structure splits the ratio into an integer and fractional part, that is: The hardware directly uses R0, D0, and M0, with software responsible to calculate their correct value. The corresponding structure of the NCO is shown below, including the adjust capability, with a total of four software controlled parameters. The implementation further restricts A0 to be +1 or -1,

- Timers
A0 is the direction of the frequency correction while the magnitude of the correction is controlled by the parameters of the rational divider controlling the adjust frequency: N1, D1, and b.
**Figure 9.20 NCO Structure for MTSC Generation**
#### 9.3.2.4 Secondary TSC
Only OSC at 38.4 MHz with K = 1 is supported in the SoC. The secondary TSC is essentially a rational divider with adjust capabilities followed by a counter. In the normal operation, the counter increments by one for each rising edge of the divided clock, similar to previous chips. The secondary TSC always takes its initial value from the main TSC.
#### 9.3.2.5 External Reference Tracking
The secondary TSC can track an external reference instead of tracking the main TSC, in particular, the external reference can be an external input, typically the GPS PPS signal or the PTP signal received on an Ethernet port. Because the time interval between edges of the reference becomes much larger, the approach for adjusting must be modified to provide a finer control of the frequency of adjust signals sent to the CAR fractional divider.

- Timers
The approach is to use a fractional divided to generate the adjust frequency, with the hardware loop controlling the numerator. The denominator is sized to get a fine enough granularity based on the assumed maximum frequency drift rate to compensate. The tracking can only be done on one selected signal, but the tracking logic also provides the current difference between STSC and multiple references, as shown in the figure below. Note that one of the paths uses bits of MTSC for reference and replaces the tracking mechanism found in previous devices.
- The hardware locking mechanism also allows to start the TSC counter synchronously with the
external reference. This may be used as part of a hardware locked loop or to align the TSC value across different SoC devices. This is achieved by combining a hardware enable synchronized to the reference edge with the software controlled TSC enable bit.
**Figure 9.21 TSC Capture and Hardware Tracking**
The synchronized start logic enables TSC counting at the first reference edge after software sets the synchronized start enable bit. The same source selection is used for both the hardware locking logic and the synchronized start feature.

- Timers
**Figure 9.22 Synchronized Start Logic**
The phase difference measurement circuitry is shown below, it starts measuring at an arbitrary phase value, the current TSC value when the first edge after software sets the ALIGN bit.
**Figure 9.23 Measuring Phase Error for hardware Locking**
The following lists the signals that are used as reference signals, per branch:
- Branch GPS
A selected subset of the input signals to the AO cluster GTE. It is assumed that one of these GPIO is the GPS PPS, normally carried as a short pulse, and the rising edge must be used as reference.
- Branch PTX

- Timers
- The LSB of the PTP second counter in each Ethernet MAC that supports PTP. The PTP
standard requires to present the time as a mixed radix value of seconds and nanoseconds. This unfortunately means that bits of the nanoseconds counter are not all periodic, so each edge of the PTP second counter is used. This incidentally also matches the period (one second) of the PPS signal. A defined counter bit of the PTM reference counter of each PCIe controller (a priori PTM capture is only needed for PCIe controllers that can carry Ethernet data). The PTM counter is not mixed radix so there are no restriction on which bit of the counter to select, the bit must be selected to provide a toggle frequency in the range 1 to 100 Hz in nominal conditions
- Branch MTSC
A bit of MTSC, to support the legacy mechanism where TSC is locked on MTSC
- Branch MISC
- CK32 (used as a data signal)
The loop logic controls the sign and frequency of the adjust signal in the following way: The frequency of the adjust signal is controlled by a rational divider, with the numerator of the divider being the magnitude of the variable controlled by hardware, while the denominator is fixed to 2. Fixing the denominator to a power of 2 simplifies the logic. The sign of the variable controlled by hardware (possibly inverted for test purposes) is the sign of the adjust signal sent to CAR
- The adjustment of the numerator is done in this way
- If the magnitude of the phase difference is decreasing, do nothing
If the magnitude of the phase difference is increasing, increase or decrease the numerator by a programmable delta based on the current sign of the phase difference. The direction of the magnitude change is found by comparing two consecutive measurements of the phase difference. The above approach is stable but converges slowly and is combined with a fast convergence mode that works by directly calculating change in the adjust values. This requires a more complex algorithm, that considers the value of consecutive differences. Note that the algorithm could also be done via software (possibly using more complex extrapolation algorithms).
- The fast convergence operation is performed only when enabled and when the error or the
extrapolated error is large:
- At each capture edge, calculate an extrapolated error that would be the error at the next
capture edge if the adjust range was left unchanged, using the two last difference values measured Dextrapolated,i+1 = Di + (Di – Di-1) = 2Di – Di-1
- Calculates a delta to apply to the numerator as Dextrapolated,i+1 * K = dn if
abs(Dextrapolated,i+1) is larger than a configured threshold. The new numerator n i+1 = n i + dn (with saturation). K is a (fractional) scale factor provided by software, the value is provided

- Timers
as K = K_int * 2m with m configurable. To limit the complexity, K_int has not many bits as calculating the delta requires a multiplication followed by a left shift (the multiplication can be done serially bit per bit (speed is not important) or brute force parallel). The numerator must be saturated as the interface to CAR must maintain a distance of at least eight TSC cycles between adjust requests. The value dn is calculated to make the difference equal to 0 after one sample cycle. The K factor is determined by calculating the change in number of generated TSC cycles for an increase of dn in the numerator, across one capture cycle.
- Number of nominal TSC cycles in one capture cycle, Ftsc * Tref = Nref
- Changes in number of adjust cycles requested in one capture cycle, Nref * dn / AdjustDen =
- NAdj
- Changes in the number of TSC cycles generated for adjust of A per request, A * NAdj /
- CarTscDen = NTsc
Note: A is currently fixed at 1. dn is desired such that the extrapolated phase error after correction becomes 0, so
- Nref * dn / AdjustDen / CarTscDen= NTsc
dn = (AdjustDen * CarTscDen) / (Ftsc * Tref) NTsc = K NTsc K = (AdjustDen * CarTscDen) / (Ftsc * Tref) The programmed value should be slightly smaller than the value calculated above, e.g., by a factor of 0.9 as the estimate is approximate, so finally Kint * 2m = 0.9 * (AdjustDen * CarTscDen) / (Ftsc * Tref), with 2(w-1) <= Kint < 2w, where w is the bit width of Kint.
- The fast convergence mode is normally much better but makes more assumptions and is more
sensitive to misconfiguration up to becoming instable. The slow convergence makes almost no assumption, and is unconditionally stable if the step is small enough. The algorithm requires one multiplication, Delta_NUM = -((Extrapolated * Kint) << m)). The variable Extrapolated represents the expected phase error in TSC unit and should never be large. Also, the operation of the algorithm does not require an extremely high precision of the results, so Extrapolated is saturated to 14 bits and Kint is using eight bits, possibly allowing for a shift and add multiplier if wanted. The dimensioning for Extrapolated assumes that the maximum absolute difference during fast convergence does not exceed twice the accumulated error during one reference period, i.e., is less than 2 * Ftsc * Tref * relative frequency error = 2 * 31.25 MHz * 1 s * 50 ppm = 3125. This requires 13 bits as Extrapolated is a signed quantity, the implementation has one extra bit for margin.
#### 9.3.2.6 TSC Controlled Signals
TSC controlled signals extends the capability of placing interrupts at a known value of TSC and allows to place the edges of a limited number of signals at known values of TSC.

- Timers
The canonical example for the need of such feature is controlling the time positions of a light flash relative to the shutter opening of a sensor. In general, this can help when synchronization of multiple external devices must happen at known time relative to the internal software time base. In the SoC, the TSC block generates four independent signals, that are broadcast to a small number of pads. The target pads must use the standard pinmux logic, ideally with one available port or replacing an existing but not used port, as shown below. The first generator broadcasts its signal to four pins with stringent timing skew requirements, eliminating an external buffer. Other generators sent this signal to a single pin only.
**Figure 9.24 TSC Controlled Signals**
- The register interface is defined to allow the generation of simple waveforms with minimal
software complexity and make possible the generation of more complex sequences with more complex software:

- Timers
A generator always starts at a TSC value defined by a set of START registers. More than one register is needed because TSC values are 56 bits long.
- The START registers also define the initial level
A STATUS register allows software to follow the operation and to detect possible problem like the generator not starting because the START value is in the past.
- WAITING, indicates that the generator has started and is waiting for TSC to reach the
- START TSC value
- RUNNING, indicates that the generator is actively processing the EDGE registers
- EDGE_ID, which EDGE register is processed by the generator
- VALUE, current value present on the output
- INTERRUPT, current interrupt level
- Once the generator is started, it changes the level based on a set of EDGE registers, each
- EDGE register defines
- The OFFSET (in TSC unit) from the previous change at which to apply the actions defined
by the register A TOGGLE action bit, indicating if the signal must be toggled or not A STOP action bit, indication if the generator must be stopped after this edge A LOOP bit, indication that the next EDGE register to use should be back the first EDGE register, allowing to define a periodic pattern, STOP has precedence on LOOP. -
- If neither LOOP nor STOP are set, the next EDGE register is the next EDGE register (in
circular fashion), i.e., (i + 1) % N, where N is the number of EDGE registers implemented. A IRQ action bit, indicating if an interrupt must be reported to software after executing this step.
- With two EDGE registers, the following waveforms can be generated with minimal software
involvement:
- Single edge at a defined instant in the future, with optional interrupt
Single pulse with defined width that starts at a defined instant in the future, with optional interrupt Periodic pulse with defined width and repetition period future that starts at a defined instant in the future, with optional interrupt. Each generator implements eight EDGE registers, and the address space is structured to support easy extension to a much larger number. The structure of the EDGE registers allows them to be stored in a local memory if wanted. Software can define arbitrary sequences if it can modify EDGE registers fast enough, possibly in response to an interrupt. The next figure is an example of use that includes such a dynamic modification.

- Timers
**Figure 9.25 Use of TSC Controlled Generation Example**
#### 9.3.2.7 TSC Distribution Logic
The TSC distribution logic operates by replicating the TSC value at terminal nodes. This is achieved by broadcasting both RefClk and serialized synchronization messages to all terminal nodes, plus a Halt indication used to stop TSC during debug. This is transparent to software except for the need to enable the distribution function.
#### 9.3.2.8 Halting TSC During Debug
The Arm architecture supports halting TSC during debug, as a way to stop the timers dependent on TSC. This introduces problems in a complex SoC with multiple loosely coupled processors and TSC also used for timestamping operation. The following approaches tackle this issue:
- TSC terminal nodes support a third signal, Halt, so that they can be stopped without
stopping the TSC reference clock. Two different Halt modes are supported, with the selection being done by a bit present in the SYNC message The legacy mode is associated with value 0 of the selection bit (default), in that mode the
- TSC terminal node always honor SYNC messages when not Halted. This may trigger a jump
at the end of a Halt period

- Timers
- The alternate mode, aka no jump mode, is associated with value 1 of the selection bit. In
the no jump mode, the TSC terminal node enters a no jump state these two conditions are met - -
- At least one SYNC message was honored since reset deassertion
- Halt was asserted at least once since reset deassertion, with the no jump bit at 1
- In the no jump state, the TSC terminal node counts when Halt is deasserted, but
does not synchronize to subsequent SYNC messages. The end result is that all
- TSC terminal nodes always increment at the same rate when they are not halted,
and never experience any jump, but the TSC value can differ between different Halt domains.
- TSC and all TSC terminal nodes can be halted as before, using the existing HDBG
configuration bit.
- The CCPLEX timers can be halted without stopping TSC itself by specifically stopping the
- TSC terminal node(s) in CCPLEX
- All TSC terminal nodes in CCPLEX are hooked to a specific HaltCpu signal
A specific configuration to control the behavior: HDBG_CPU
- The register interface includes a STOP_CPU_TSC field that operates independently of the
debug mode as an alternate control method of stopping the CCPLEX TSC terminal nodes and thus, the CCPLEX timers.
- The TSC reference clock is never stopped
- The HALT signal is always asserted when TSC is disabled, otherwise the local time as shown
by terminal nodes unexpectedly keep counting. This is not a useful use case but is nevertheless tested as part of Arm compliance testing.
**Figure 9.26 Halt Generation Logic**

- Timers
The TSC visible to the CPU via the Arm generic timers differs from the TSC visible to other engines when using the no jump halt mode after the first HALT_CPU only period. Note: It is possible to define more independent controller Halt domains, but it is expected that only CCPLEX needs special handling, so only two modes of operations are defined, global Halt and CCPLEX only halt. The behavior is illustrated below.

- Timers
**Figure 9.27 Halt Modes**
- The halt mode is in line with Arm recommendations on the use of TSC; Arm recommends two
separate TSC, one which can be stopped during debug and one that never stops. Using the no jump mode with different HALT domains supports the Arm recommendation while insuring that any time

- Timers
a TSC terminal node counts, it counts at the same rate as the global TSC. The following two halt domains are supported:
- The TSC terminal nodes feeding the Arm generic timers associated with the CPU cores inside
- CCPLEX. These terminal nodes are connected to the CPU halt domain, the corresponding
DSU port is CNTVALUEB.
- All other TSC terminal nodes, including TSC terminal nodes inside CCPLEX used for program
tracing, the corresponding DSU port is TSVALUEB[63:0].
#### 9.3.2.9 Generic Timestamping Engine
The generic timestamping engine (GTE) is an IP block that can be instantiated where timestamping is performed by hardware instead of software. GTEs across the chip snoop a subset of signals:
- Interrupts, either close to LIC or close to AVIC inside a Cortex-R5 processor complex
- GPIO signals, especially for the sensor signals used by the SPE
The generic timestamping engine snoops a configurable set of signals, timestamps any change on them and presents the timestamped events to software via FIFOs and an APB interface. Care is taken to make the timestamping engine secure, i.e., to avoid security attacks through the use of timestamping. The generic timestamping engine is built from a configurable number (nTS) of timestamping slices, each slice built from a configurable number (nC) of capture slices, each capture slice able to snoop up to 32 signals, and an arbitration stage when there are more than one capture slice per timestamping slice. Each timestamping slice is normally associated with a different Main in the SoC in particular, to provide differentiated security. All timestamping slices share a common APB interface. The capture slice continuously monitors the set of enabled and not disabled inputs, if the current value is different from the last captured value and there is place in the capture FIFO:
- The captured value is updated to be the current value
- The current and last captured value is placed in the FIFO together with the slice ID and
enough LSB of the TSC to allow a correct disambiguation of the timestamp later on. If multiple capture slices are present, an arbitration stage merges the different capture slices into a common output FIFO. Each output slice then presents the timestamping records to software via a set of access registers. Each timestamping slice has its own set of access registers to allow for differentiated security, but all timestamping slices share a common APB interface. Each timestamping slice can also generate an interrupt based on the FIFO occupancy; that interrupt may or not be connected to an interrupt controller. The access registers can present the capture records either in raw form or as a set of individual bit changes.

- Timers
##### 9.3.2.9.1 Encoded Form for Captured Information
The raw information contains the current and previously captured value of the signals in the slice as a bitmap. Encoding transforms that into a sequence of changes. This is done by:
- XORing the previous and current values to calculate a change bitmap
Iterating a procedure that: Finds the lowest index of a bit at 1 in the change bitmap, providing the index and the value of the bit in a register, plus the slice number. Clears the corresponding bit from the change bit map until the change bitmap is zero. The index provides the full information about the signal captured; the register fields are defined so that the combination (slice number, bit index) gives the interrupt number.
##### 9.3.2.9.2 General Structure of GTE
The general structure of the GTE is shown in the figure below.
**Figure 9.28 Generic Timestamping Engine**

- Timers
There are multiple instances of the GTE. Each instance has a width defined by a number of 32-bit slices (nC). Some instances are paired to support multiple levels of security.
- Table 9.19 GTE Instances
- Module
- Paired
nC
- Remark
- LIC
- Yes
13+2 A pair of GTE for interrupt timestamping between LIC and GIC. Note that local GIC interrupts are not timestamped.
- Extra two slices for timestamping of top level peripherals
or other top level signals.
- BPMP
- No
- Timestamping the local interrupts, i.e., the inputs to
the AVIC.
- SCE
- No
- PVA{0}
- No
- RCE
- No
- DCE
- No
- AON
- No
- Timestamping the local interrupts, i.e., the inputs to
the VIC, plus a small subset of GPIOs. The two lower slices are reserved for local interrupts, the third one for GPIOs. In Orin, the following rules are followed to make the mapping between source signals and GTE input numbering more deterministic and stable:
- When timestamping interrupts, the GTE slice mapping is one to one with the corresponding
interrupt slice, so that the interrupt numbering and GTE signal numbering are identical. In particular, reserved interrupt IDs become reserved GTE signal IDs and are not reused for other purpose, helping forward compatibility.
- Slices used for GPIO signals are mapped based on information contained in the GPIO
configuration file; this indirectly also provides the mapping from GTE input number to a corresponding pin. Note: All interrupt controllers are organized in slices, the GTE slice structure was patterned to reflect that approach.
#### 9.3.2.10 RefClk Source Change Logic
The recommended usage model is to always use OSC (at 38.4 MHz) and with K=1 always.
#### 9.3.2.11 Power Management
The TSC logic is not power gated but implements clock gating. Note that as it provides an SoC-wide timing reference, TSC is normally always enabled.

- Timers
The secondary TSC and TSC distribution logic can not work when the OSC is disabled, as RefClk is not available then. OSC is disabled in some of the deep sleep states, with only 32,768 Hz present. This is true for some variants of SC7. The transitions to and from the deep sleep states that disable the OSC circuitry are controlled by the PMC logic. The PMC logic handshakes with TSC, to allow for a clean shutdown and restart of the secondary TSC as well as TSC distribution in case OSC is stopped in the target power state.
- Entering a deep sleep mode where OSC is to be stopped
- PMC asserts a deep sleep request signal while OSC and RefClk are still running
- TSC stops the secondary TSC and the distribution logic, then assert a deep sleep status
signal to PMC
- Stopping is logically equivalent to disabling these blocks via the software control bits
- PMC can now stop OSC and indirectly stops RefClk
- Exiting a deep sleep mode where OSC already stopped
- PMC restarts OSC and indirectly restarts RefClk, and waits until OSC is stable
- PMC deasserts the deep sleep request signal
- TSC restarts the secondary TSC and the TSC distribution logic if their respective software
enable bits is set Restarting the secondary TSC requires an initialization, the main TSC value is copied to the secondary TSC counter at the next edge of the 32,768 Hz clock
- Restarting the TSC distribution preferably includes sending a synchronization message as
soon as possible
- TSC deasserts the deep sleep status signal to PMC
The whole sequence is similar to the sequence used for Arm processors. The handshake must also work even when TSC itself is disabled, to avoid blocking the forward progress of the PMC state machine. This may require providing a non-gateable clock to the handshake logic.

- Timers
**Figure 9.29 Deep Sleep Handshake with PMC**
#### 9.3.2.12 Real Time Clock
The internal Real Time Clock (RTC) is a real-time clock in the AO partition that measures elapsed time since the last cold boot and is not affected by SC7 entry/exit transitions. Note that the PMIC also generally provides an external RTC with better robustness (not affected by the cold boot of the SoC). The RTC accumulates real time in a mixed radix format of seconds (32 bits) and milliseconds (10 bits), it operates on the 32,768 Hz clock and can take its reference from the 32,768 Hz clock itself or TSC.

- Timers
The seconds counter can be updated by software to provide an initial offset different from zero at initialization, and later updates sticky disabled for security. The RTC provides different alarms that can be used as interrupts or SC7 wake signals. The RTC also provides a safety reference counter, with no configuration whatsoever that can be used to check the correct operating frequency of other TKEs.
- RTC logic operates in the 32,768 Hz clock domain, and software must take into account when
accessing RTC registers. In particular, the RTC module maintains a ‘busy’ status register bit which is set (1’b1) while a register write is being transferred. Software must not send a write when this bit is set (this requires write accesses to the RTC to be protected by a resource semaphore if more than two agents are allowed to access the RTC). The RTC maintains a count of seconds and milliseconds since the last cold reset. It can select between the 32,768 Hz clock and MTSC as time base. The only difference is the first NCO stage, the rest of the logic is independent of the selected reference. The logic itself always operates at the 32,768 Hz clock.
**Figure 9.30 RTC Generation**
The RTC block also contains alarms implemented by comparison between a target value and the current RTC value. The RTC value is exported to SPE where it is used to generate local alarms on top of the alarms supported in RTC itself. For safety related purposes, the RTC also provides a reference counter, always enabled, that increments at each rising edge of the 32,768 Hz clock. This can be used as a safety reference to assess the health of other timing elements. This reference counter is never halted, especially it is not stopped during debug and has no configuration. RTC is not configurable but is instanced inside the AO partition, the same as in previous devices. It also contains the AOWDT.

- Timers
#### 9.3.2.13 Always On WatchDog Timer
A watchdog timer (WDT) is provided in the Always On (AO) power domain, with the following rationale: Its operation is not dependent on OSC; it only requires the 32,768 Hz clock and the main TSC to be active. The timer can be used to detect and flag SC7 related issues, such as an inability to wake up. Using a different clock source and voltage domain for this time can be used for safety diversity. The AO WDT requirements are only slightly different from a standard WDT: Operates on the 32,768 Hz clock, so that it can operate continuously, including during power states where OSC is OFF when WDT operation is suspended. The actions associated with some expiration levels are redefined as wake events: Expiration level 2 asserts a standard wake signal.
- Expiration level 3 asserts a wake signal that also clears the PMC scratch register info
indicating warm boot. The debug reset associated with expiration level 4, while connected, must not be used. The AO WDT reuses the implementation of the TKE WDT, including the register interface; the only changes are in the inputs and outputs connected to it, especially the operating clock.
#### 9.3.2.14 Microsecond Counter and Time Reference Pulses Generation
- The USEC module broadcasts periodic pulses with 1 microsecond and 1 millisecond periods,
allowing time to be measured in a platform-independent way. USEC operates on OSC to allow operation when no PLL is active. The time base can be OSC itself or TSC, and USEC also maintains a counter of elapsed microseconds.
- While USEC operates in the AO partition, it relies on OSC for its operation and so may be
suspended in some power states where RTC keeps counting, and so USEC and RTC are complementary, not redundant.
**Figure 9.31 Reference Pulses Generation and Microsecond Counter**

- Timers
#### 9.3.2.15 TKE Module
NV Timers (TMRs) and Watchdog Timers (WDTs) are instantiated as part of a TKE module. There are nT timers and nW watchdog timers per TKE. Each TKE also includes registers to make different measures of time available: OSC, microsecond counter, and TSC. This access is low latency to the local processor. Finally, each TKE can optionally contain an interrupt routing function, this is only present for the TKE instantiated at the top level to limit the number of top-level interrupts. For debug purposes, the TKE operation can optionally be halted during debug. This is especially important to suspend the operation of enabled WDTs that could otherwise reset the system while debug is in progress.
##### 9.3.2.15.1 NV Timer
Each NV timer is a general-purpose timer with the following characteristics:
- Downcounter of 29 bits generating an interrupt when reaching zero
The decrement rate is on a configurable reference:
- At 1 MHz, as defined by the 1 MHz reference pulse
- At OSC rate
- On any edge of TSC[0], so normally at the recommended 31.25 MHz TSC update rate
- On any edge of TSC[12], so normally at 31.25 MHz / 4096, about 7.63 kHz
Optionally operates in periodic mode, i.e., automatically reload the start value when reaching zero The ability to select the timebase for each timer independently may be of assistance in functional safety applications.
##### 9.3.2.15.2 Optional Interrupt Routing
The interrupt routing block takes the set of interrupts present in the TKE and aggregates them in a configurable fashion into nSI shared interrupts. This is only present for the top-level TKE and the shared interrupts are connected to the LIC in that case. The number of (internal) interrupts inside a TKE is dependent on the number of NV timers and WDT:
- Each NV timer has one associated interrupt, set when the downcounter reaches 0
Each WDT has three associated interrupts, one for each of the three first expirations of the
- WDT
The interrupt logic uses nSI masks, each containing (nT + 3 * nW) bits. Each mask selects which local interrupt are included in the corresponding shared interrupt. The interrupt logic also exposes interrupt status registers to software.

- Timers
##### 9.3.2.15.3 Watchdog Timer
A general view of the WDT logic is shown below.
**Figure 9.32 WDT Structure**
The watchdog mechanism operates in the following way:
- Each processor complex is associated with one WDT. For the CCPLEX, all cores are in the
same coherency domain and are considered as one SMP processor for software purposes; i.e., all cores inside CCPLEX are associated with the same WDT (WDT0 in the Top TKE). Select as reference time base either:
- Any of the timer zero pulses
A transition on any bit in a defined subset of the bits of the local TSC counter Having more than one reference source may be used for the safety requirements for diversity.
- Implements a periodic downcounter decrementing at the selected rate. The downcounter
generates an expiration event when it reaches zero.
- At each expiration, the WDT increases the expiration level, saturating at level 5
- The increase may be larger than 1, the exact increase is configurable per expiration level
- The WDT logic can assert specific output signals based on the current expiration
- For the first three expiration levels, the WDT can assert a corresponding interrupt, each
with a specific use:

- Timers
- If the expiration level is 1 or more, a normal priority interrupt (IRQ) directly routed to the associated processor complex. This may be used to restart the timer inside an interrupt handler in non-safety critical applications. If the expiration level is 2 or more, a high priority interrupt (FIQ) directly routed to the associated processor complex. In Android, the corresponding interrupt handler assumes the system is in a bad state and captures some state information for a potential post mortem analysis. The interrupt handler may not attempt to correct the problem.
- If the expiration level is 3 or more, a normal interrupt (IRQ) routed to the LIC and from
there routed to a set of processors, this is meant to trigger system wide actions, in particular recovery actions of the processor associated with the WDT. This is also known as a remote interrupt. - - If the expiration level transitions from a value strictly below 4 to a value above or equal to 4, the WDT can assert a system wide debug reset. When debug is allowed, this reset can be intercepted by debug logic, and specific actions taken to preserve information about the state of the system before reset assertion clears them, allowing for post-mortem debug analysis. In particular, DFD logic attempts to flush the processor caches and local memories to DRAM, save processor state, and put the DRAM in self-refresh before allowing the reset to take effect. WDT and CAR logic uses a four phase handshake to communicate the WDT debug reset request. If the expiration level is 5, the WDT can assert a system wide reset, equivalent to a Power On Reset, this reset can optionally include a PMIC power cycling depending on the configuration in PMC. This is the last safety net for recovery purposes, attempting to bring the system to a working state without any specific attempt at preserving information. Each WDT signals an error to the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM) when its expiration level is greater or equal than a programmable threshold. Orin supports a force error command for testing; software must not issue any restart command while error forcing takes place. The watchdog timer supports a configurable restart mechanism. These features are disabled by default for backwards compatibility.
- The counter can only be optionally restarted in defined windows of time instead of at any
time
- Two window mechanisms with different granularity are supported, with coarse and fine
granularity. The window mechanism is a safety requirement.
- The counter can only be optionally restarted or disabled using a Challenge/Response pair
(also known as Question/Answer, QA). In previous chips, only disabling required an unlock using a simpler fixed pattern unlock. The challenge/response mechanism is a safety requirement to avoid unexpected deactivation of a WDT. The windowing operation works like this:
- Optionally enabled, normal operation is windowless and the WDT can be restarted at any
time. When enabled, a restart of the timer is disabled:

- Timers
- For a programmable set of expiration levels. This is achieved by disabling writes to the
COMMAND register based on a bitmap of disallowed expiration levels.
- When outside an allowed window as measured by the combination of expiration level and
downcounter, as shown in the figure below.
**Figure 9.33 Fine-Grained WDT Windowing Mechanism**
The Challenge/Response works like this:
- Optionally enabled, normal operation does not use Challenge/Response, unlocking is done by
writing using a known fixed pattern to the unlock register address. When enabled, a restart is achieved only after unlocking via a Challenge/Response.
- The Challenge is that a Linear Feedback Shift Register (LFSR) value, present in the Unlock
register and reading the Unlock register, is mandatory as the implementation is allowed to use the read to alter internal state. The Response is the next value of the LFSR that needs to be written in the Unlock register. The LFSR is (re)initialized with the value written to the Unlock register. Note that this is equivalent to advancing the LFSR if the unlock was successful. 0 is an allowed value that can be used for testing, the successor of 0 is 0. The LFSR uses the classic CRC-32 polynomial operating in shift right (reversed) direction; that is, the next value is calculated as LFSR = (LFSR >> 1) ^ ((LFSR & 0x1) ? 0xEDB88320 : 0). When locked, the Command register cannot be written. An incorrect restart attempt can optionally result in an immediate jump in the expiration level. This is normally used to immediately trigger a reset condition when the WDT is used as a safety- relevant WDT. For safety, the WDT enable is controlled by two bits, normal and sticky, and the platform policy can decide which to use, i.e., if a WDT may or not be disabled once enabled. The use of the sticky enable, making it impossible to disable the WDT until the next reset, is a safety requirement. There is a watchdog timer in the Always On partition, that AO WDT is only reset by an external hardware Power On Reset, i.e., it is never disabled by a reset triggered by an SoC WD timer. The AO

- Timers
- WDT has the same structure as the SoC WDTs but with different wiring of some inputs and
outputs. WDTs can optionally be halted during debug; WDT operation may also be suspended when one or more of the TKE clocks is suspended. This can happen for a standard WDT during some low-power states where OSC is stopped; for example, AO WDT is specifically present to continue working during these power states. The SoC supports a modified mechanism to stop all WDTs, similar to the ability to stop all timers. The request comes on a wire broadcast to all TKEs (and AOWDTs). The request is further qualified by the local debug enable signal. Each WDT adds a configuration bit to allow/disallow stopping the WDT, allowed after reset but can be switched to disallow for safety use cases. Each WDT also includes a status bit indicating if it is currently frozen. The local debug enable signal is connected to the invasive debug enable for the processor cluster associated with the TKE:
- CCPLEX DBGEN signal for top TKE: global_dbgen
- Cortex-R5 DBGEN for a Cortex-R5 cluster: {bpmp, spe, sce, rce, dce, pva{0}}_dbgen
- A9 DBGEN for APE cluster: ape_dbgen
- DBGEN connected to SPE for AOWDT: spe_dbgen
Note that this mechanism makes the use of the configuration bit disabling freeze optional in safety applications. It is recommended to leave that bit at 0b.

- Timers
**Figure 9.34 Example Timeline for Watchdog Operation**
The WDT timers are reset on L2 reset except the AOWDT that is reset on L1 only. The reset requests are individually exposed as ports, even when multiple WDT share the same TKE as the reset source must be captured for use by software.
#### 9.3.2.16 Generic Timers
Arm Generic Timer (GT) architecture defines timers to be used by Arm CPUs. This architecture uses the system wide timing reference called Timestamp System Counter (TSC) that increases at a constant rate. This allows the Generic Timers inside a CPU cluster to operate correctly without reconfiguration when the CPU frequency changes. The Arm Generic Timer includes the following features: Physical counter that contains the count value of the system-counter.
- Virtual counter that indicates virtual time. The virtual counter contains the value of the
physical counter minus a 64-bit virtual offset. Multiple timers per CPU (the exact set depends on the core configuration):
- EL1 physical timer
- Non-secure EL2 physical timer
- EL3 physical timer

- Timers
- EL1 virtual timer
- Non-secure EL2 virtual timer
- Secure EL2 virtual timer
- Secure EL2 physical timer
- The Arm architectural specification includes a mandatory (CNTCTLBase) registers frame that
provides configuration information related to Arm generic timers implemented in MMIO fashion;
- The SoC does not currently have these registers (all Arm generic timers present use system
registers). Full details about the operation of the Generic Timers were introduced in different Arm documents and are now part of the Arm Architecture Reference Manual.
#### 9.3.2.17 Cortex-A9 Timers
The Cortex-A9 complex inside the APE contains an instance of a Cortex-A9 timer block, including the following:
- Global timer, a 64-bit incrementing counter
- Per CPU core private timer, a 32-bit decrementing counter with optional prescaler
- Per CPU core watchdog timer. It has the same structure as a private timer augmented with
watchdog capabilities and can be used as a second private timer. The Cortex-A9 WDT reset request signal is not connected. All these timers operate on the Cortex-A9 clock, making them difficult to use for real-time purposes when the Cortex-A9 clock is subject to DVFS. The APE cluster includes a TKE (not affected by DVFS) and APE software usually do not use at all the Cortex-A9 timers.
#### 9.3.2.18 Functional Safety Island Timers
The Functional Safety Island (FSI) takes over most of the functions of the external safety MCU. The FSI requires two timer modules: A global system counter, matching the Arm generic timer architecture; this is done reusing some of the TSC building blocks. A TKE that provides timers for the Cortex-R5 (similar to Cortex-R5 clusters on the SoC side) or Cortex-R52 (generic Arm timers part of the Cortex-R52 cluster itself). In addition, at least one WDT per CPU core (five WDTs: four Cortex-R52 and one Cortex-R5), as each core could run as an independent software entity. To limit complexity, all timer elements run on the FSI local crystal clock, this simplifies the CAR logic and remove the need for TSC terminal nodes, as explained later on. The overall timer infrastructure logic inside FSI is illustrated below.

- Timers
**Figure 9.35 FSI Timer Infrastructure**
The FSI module is relatively small, so TSC distribution does not need to cover large distances and the TSC value is only distributed to very few endpoints, so TSC is distributed in parallel binary format, with retime stages if needed. The FSI operates at ASIL-D, this is achieved by using software consistency to check the different timer operations, register parity for all configuration registers and hardware watchdog timers.
##### 9.3.2.18.1 FSI-TSC
The FSI-TSC implements a simplified TSC that performs the following functions:
- Supports the Arm architecture registers, except for TrustZone specific requirements
- Note: The Arm architecture requirements define some registers as TrustZone accessible
only; this is not possible for R class Arm CPU cores that do not support TrustZone. Maintains a 56 bit counter, in steps of 32 ns. This is nominally the same rate as the SoC side TSC.

- Timers
Distribute the 56 bit counter in parallel binary format to the rest of the FSI logic, especially the local TKE, the CAN modules and the Cortex-R52 cores
- Also implements the USEC related counter and signals and sends the usec reference pulse to
the local TKE and the FSI fabric, and the msec reference pulse to the local GPIO controller. The FSI-TSC logic operates directly on the FSI XTAL clock (also known as OSC) working with 40 MHz, there is no 31.25 MHz clock and so no CAR level divider to generate such a clock. The following figure shows the block diagram, showing how the SoC side TSC is modified to get the FSI-TSC.
**Figure 9.36 FSI-TSC Block Diagram (Showing Similarities with SoC Side TSC)**
##### 9.3.2.18.2 Registers and APB Interface
FSI-TSC has the same register windows as the SoC counterpart:
- The Arm defined windows, arfsi_tsc_sysctr{0,1,2} are strictly identical to the equivalent
SoC side windows, except that there is no TrustZone support.
- The NVIDIA implementation window, arfsi_tsc is much simpler than the SoC side and detailed
below.
- The USEC address window, arfsi_usec_cntr is identical to the equivalent SoC side window,
except reset values. Note that to fit in the FSI Low Latency Peripheral address range, the different TSC windows are mapped on consecutive 4 KiB windows, not 64 KiB as on the SoC side. Offsets inside each window are unchanged. This is possible as support for page based address virtualization is not needed in

- Timers
the FSI partition. Also, the SCR registers are not present, protection is done via one BLF per window. The FSI-TSC implementation window contains the same registers as defined for the Main TSC, but with different default values, as summarized below. Values highlighted correspond to differences in reset values from the SoC side.
- Register: FTSCACR, RW, equivalent to MTSACR, TSC Adjust Control Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- ABS
7:4
- Adjust Bit Select, an edge on MTSC[9+ABS]
triggers one adjust operation
- DIR
- Direction of the adjustment, 0 indicates A0 = -1, 1
indicates A0 = +1
- EN
- Enables frequency error correction
- Register: FTSCADR, RW, equivalent to MTSCADR, TSC Adjust Divider Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- D1
27:16
- Numerator of the adjust NCO
- N1
11:0
- Denominator of the adjust NCO
Register: FTSCANNR, RW, equivalent to MTSCANNR, TSC Adjustable NCO Numerator Register, different reset values
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- M0
27:16
- Fractional part of the numerator of the adjustable NCO
- R0
11:0
- Integer part of the numerator of the adjustable NCO
Register: FTSCANDR, RW, equivalent to MTSCANDR, TSC Adjustable NCO Denominator Register, different reset value
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- D0
11:0
- Denominator of the adjustable NCO

- Timers
Register: FTSC MTSCCNTCV{0,1}, RO, equivalent to TSC_MTSCCNTCV{0,1}, TSC Counter Count Value Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- CV
31:0 {0}
- Numerator of the adjust NCO
The FSI USEC window is also identical to the SoC counterpart except for some reset values.
- Register: USECCVR, RO, Microsecond Counter Value Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- CNT
31:0
- Number of usec pulses since last system reset
- Register: USECCCR, Microsecond Counter Configuration Register, different reset values
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- Dividend
15:8
- Numerator is Dividend + 1, aka N
- Divisor
7:0
- Denominator is Divisor + 1, default value
corresponds to 40 MHz OSC
- Register: USECCRSR, Microsecond Counter Reference Selection Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- MBS
5:4
- TSC Bit Select, TSC[1+MBS] edge used as reference
when not free running.
- FR
- Free Running, controls the microsecond counter TSC
lock behavior
- When 0b, the microsecond locks the usec reference
pulse to a selected bit of TSC[4:1] using the adjust signal, this is the recommended mode
- When 1b, usec counter counts on each edge of OSC in
free running fashion, legacy mode

- Timers
- Register: USECCFR, Microsecond Counter Freeze Register
- Field name
- Bits
- Reset
- Description
- HDBG
- Halt-on-debug. Controls whether a Halt-on-debug
signal halts the microsecond and associated divider logic 0: Microsecond counter ignores Halt-on-debug. 1: Asserted Halt-on-debug signal halts the ration divider, automatically stopping the microsecond counter and the timing reference signals.
##### 9.3.2.18.3 System Counter
- The system counter reuses the Main TSC logic from the SoC side but running at 40 MHz. The
diagram below is identical to the Main TSC Generation figure. The only change is a different target operating frequency.
**Figure 9.37 FSI-TSC Generation**
##### 9.3.2.18.4 TSC Distribution
The TSC value generated by the system counter is broadcast in parallel binary format to all TSC endpoints: Cortex-R52 cluster, FSI-TKE, and CAN. Retime stages are allowed and inserted as required by physical design rules. If the endpoint operates on a clock different from FSI OSC, the TSC value is passed through a Clock Domain Crossing element.
##### 9.3.2.18.5 USEC Functions
The USEC functions are identical to the SoC counterpart, except again for the operating frequency, as shown in the diagram below.

- Timers
**Figure 9.38 FSI Reference Pulses Generation and Microsecond Counter**
##### 9.3.2.18.6 FSI-TKE
The FSI-TKE is a standard instance of TKE, with four NV timers and five Watchdog Timers, but with the refclk input connected to the FSI crystal clock. This difference is transparent to hardware, in particular, the TSC input remains synchronous with the operating clock. The TKE logic includes CDC for the other two counters, these become unnecessary but are kept to maximize reuse. The figure below is derived from the TimeKeeping Element IP Module figure with the optional interrupt routing removed (not present in FSI-TKE), the correct number of timers and WDTs shown and the now unnecessary CDC highlighted.
**Figure 9.39 FSI Reference Pulses Generation and Microsecond Counter (without Interrupt**
- Routing)

- Timers
As this is a standard instance, the registers are mapped in 64 KiB pages and include the legacy SCR, even if SCR are useless inside FSI. The different 64 KiB pages also get each a dedicated BLF to implement correct access rights. The WDT error signals are directly connected to the FSI HSM. The WDT debug reset requests originating in the FSI TKE are routed to PMC, i.e., outside FSI. The different interrupts are connected in the following fashion; this also implies the allocation of timers and WDTs across the two processor clusters present in the FSI:
- Timers 0 and 1 interrupts to the GIC of the Cortex-R52 processor cluster
- Timers 2 and 3 interrupts to the AVIC of the CHSM cluster
- WDTs {0-3} IRQ and FIQ forwarded to the GIC of the Cortex-R52 processor cluster
- WDT 4 IRQ and FIQ forwarded to the AVIC of the CHSM cluster
- Aggregated remote interrupt of all WDTs, forwarded to be the GIC of the Cortex-R52
processor cluster and the AVIC of the CHSM cluster. The remote interrupt is also forwarded to the DFD Cross Trigger Interface (CTI) for debug. Note that the FIQ are sent as active low signals for legacy reasons, they can be inverted to active high signal on their way to the different interrupt controllers.
#### 9.3.2.19 TSC Update Frequency
The recommended frequency is 31.25 MHz, or equivalently, a 32 ns period.
##### 9.3.2.19.1 TSC Update Frequency Starting from PLLP
- The cardinality of the operands, Numerator (N) and Denominator (D), for the secondary TSC
rational divider in path 0 is dependent on the division performed in the CAR divider. The ratio is the product of the CAR divider ratio times the rational divider ratio. At least a factor of two is mandatory, whereas the divide-by-2 case is preferred but the by-4 case is also allowed.
- Table 9.20 Configuration to Generate 31.25 MHz
- CAR Frequency/31.25 MHz
- CAR Period, also Induced
- Jitter (ns)
- Ratio
# of Bits (N,D)
- CAR Divider
- CAR Frequency
(MHz) (7,10) 4.902 (7,9) 9.804

- Timers
- The (N,D) of the table above are held in
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_HS_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_HS_DIV_DIVIDEND (N)
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_HS_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_HS_DIV_DIVISOR (D)
See Clock Controller and Reset (CAR) chapter for details.
##### 9.3.2.19.2 TSC Update Frequency Starting from OSC
- The cardinality of the operands, Numerator (N) and Denominator (D), for the secondary TSC
rational divider in path 1 is constrained by the required support for a set of possible OSC frequencies. The table below shows the input frequency OSC_DIV (OSC frequency, 38.4 MHz, divided by 1) and the corresponding Rational Divider Parameters for the Update Frequency 31.25 MHz (F).
- Table 9.21 TSC Rational Divider Parameters
- OSC_Div (MHz)
K F/K (F/K) / OSC_Div
- Ratio
# of Bits (N,D)
## 38.4 (38.4 / 1)
31.25 (10,10)
- The (N,D) of the table above are held in
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_OSC_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_OSC_DIV_DIVIDEND
(N)
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_TSC_OSC_SUPER_CLK_DIVIDER_0.SUPER_TSC_OSC_DIV_DIVISOR
(D) See Clock Controller and Reset (CAR) chapter for details.
#### 9.3.2.20 Safety Mechanism
The following blocks support register parity and send the parity error signals to an error collator:
- RTC
- TSC
- USEC
They are all inside the Always-On cluster and share the Always-On cluster error collator with similar modules. The Always-On cluster error collator forwards an aggregated error signal to the Hardware Safety Manager (HSM).

- Timers
All hardware watchdog timers also generate an error signal when their expiration level is above a programmed threshold. This error signal is directly connected to the HSM without going through an error collator.}.Body)
