# 9.4.3 Programming Guidelines

@{Key=9.4.3; Title=Programming Guidelines; Body=Some controller instances make their set of signals available on two or more sets of MPIO’s. To say it another way, such controllers have more than one “interface.” Note: Before using any controller, make sure that the PinMux registers are programmed to bring out the controller’s signals on a maximum of one interface.
#### 9.4.3.1 PinMux Programming
PinMuxing configurations are static. PinMuxing provides the flexibility to choose a pin for different function across different platforms, but not to change them dynamically.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
In specific cases, based on use case requirement it is needed to change a pin from SFIO to GPIO or vice versa. Although PinMux selection dynamic changing is not supported, SFIO to GPIO or vice versa changes are allowed. Subsection outlines the PinMux programming, SFIO/GPIO switching programming and such pad control programming guidelines.
##### 9.4.3.1.1 Changing a PinMux Selection
PinMux programming to select the pin function is part of respective I/O initialization. Below sequence are a reference and confines to general purpose pad I/Os which are shared by multiple low-speed interface controllers (SFIO).
- Ensure that all the interface controllers sharing the pins are in in-active state, so that
possible glitches do not result corruption in downstream logic.
- Change the PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name> .PM value to desired I/O function
enumerated per pin.
- Initialize the respective SFIO controller and follow required SFIO interface programming
guide.
##### 9.4.3.1.2 Driving Source Change from SFIO to GPIO
Pads are by-default owned by SFIO Primary function or Alternative options can be switched as software driven GPIO as follows:
- Configure the pad’s GPIO specific registers for correct value for output mode with the
correct value as specified in GPIO section. This ensures the new source is ready with the correct value.
- Change the pad control register, i.e. PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<Ball_Name>.GPIO_SF_SEL bit
field register corresponding a pin to 1’b0 for GPIO selection.
- Follow the GPIO controller programming model depending on desired GPIO function as
specified in GPIO section (Input or output to a value or input with Interrupt etc.).
##### 9.4.3.1.3 Driving Source Change from GPIO to SFIO
Pads currently set up in GPIO mode may be switched back to SFIO function as follows:
- Change the pad control register, i.e. PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<Ball_Name>.GPIO_SF_SEL bit
field register corresponding a pin to “1” for SFIO selection.
- Initialize the respective SFIO controller and follow required SFIO interface programming
guide.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
##### 9.4.3.1.4 Programming Sequence for Input Mode
After cold boot based on platform configuration (typically obtained from the Boot Loader) different LSIO functional controllers must be mapped to specific I/O pin. The following is the programming sequence for that:
- Set PM field as per PinMux selection in pad control register
- PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.PM =
0x0: Primary 0x1: Alt1 0x2: Alt2 0x3: Alt3
- Set SFIO/GPIO selection to SFIO selection,
(PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.GPIO_SFIO_SEL = HSIO) (nothing but SFIO).
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = TRISTATE) to disable SoC
functional logic driving the I/O. Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT= ENABLE) to turn on input receiver. The specific I/O controllers driving the I/Os is configured and activated.
##### 9.4.3.1.5 Programming Sequence for Output Mode and Bi-directional Mode
- Normal Push-pull Pad
- Set PM field as per PinMux selection in pad control register
- PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.PM =
0x0: Primary 0x1: Alt1 0x2: Alt2 0x3: Alt3
- Set SFIO/GPIO selection to SFIO selection,
(PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.GPIO_SFIO_SEL = HSIO) (nothing but SFIO).
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) to enable
selected SFIO functional logic driving the I/Os.
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT = ENABLE) for bidirectional
configuration, or
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT = DISABALE) for output only
configuration The specific I/O controllers driving I/O is thus configured and activated.
- Open-drain Pad

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
Open drain pads are used to emulate Wired-AND functionality, where in multiple drivers can be shorted on the board with an external pull-up. These pads don’t drive active HIGH, instead it drives active LOW or float the pin. Platform pull-up shall ensure correct value on the node, i.e. if all the drivers are floating it is at Logic1 and if any of the drivers are driving active LOW, bus state is at Logic0. Such pads require a different programming sequence. So, any logic (both functional or software based GPIO) shall never the program/drive pads to Active 1. Both the ST pads and DD pads able to operate in open drain Mode. But the DD pads have specific control to tolerate the I/O swing of 3.3 V.
## 3.3 V Tolerance and Open-drain Operation
Configure the pad for 3.3 V swing tolerance by enabling the E_IO_HV pad control, i.e. (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.E_IO_HV = 1). Applicable to DD pads when it has to tolerate 3.3 V. Typically, other than the PMIC interface, which is guaranteed to operate at 1.8 V for all the other DD pads pad control field E_IO_HV is set to 1 as Reset default to ensure that they come with 3.3 V tolerance mode. E_IO_HV pad control must be set to 1 before I/O can be pulled to > 1.8 V.
- Set (PADCTL_<pactcl_group>_<ball_ame>_*.TRISTATE = TRISTATE). Even when the functional
logic driving Logic 1, the pad is in open drain driver mode and it is floated through an external pull-up. Enabling internal pull-up is ignored by the pad when the E_IO_HV is set though this is not the recommended.
## 1.8 V Tolerance and Open-drain Operation
To emulate open drain in 1.8V mode of operation: have the platform design float the pad with external pull-up, or program (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>.PUPD = PULLUP). To configure the Pad for 1.8V swing tolerance: setting (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>.E_IO_HV = 0). To drive high Impedance into the pad set: (PADCTL_<pactcl_group>_<ball_ame>_*.TRISTATE = TRISTATE).
## 1.8 V Tolerance/Driving and Push-Pull Operation
Since DD pads can be operated in normal push pull mode as well as open drain mode to emulate the push-pull mode the following configuration is followed. To put the open-drain pad in 1.8 V push-pull mode operation: Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>.E_IO_HV = DISABLE).
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) to enable
functional logic driving/sampling the I/O.
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT = ENABLE) for bi-directional mode of
operation. The specific I/O controllers driving the I/O is configured and activated.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
#### 9.4.3.2 Pad Control Programming
##### 9.4.3.2.1 Set Pad to High Impedance State
To select the pad for drive high impedance state: Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = TRISTATE).
- Ensure (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .PUPD == 0) to confirm that internal pull-
up/pull-down is disabled.
##### 9.4.3.2.2 E_PBIAS_BUF and VREF_SEL Pad Controls
- Programming E_PBIAS_BUF and VREF_SEL pad controls to BDSDMEM_* pads incorrectly may result
in electrical damage. E_PBIAS_BUF and VREF_SEL should be programmed in the following cases:
- VDD33 and VDD18 in the same direction
- HIGH VDD33 along with LOW VDD18
- To prevent overstress, use the following guidelines when programming E_PBIAS_BUF and
VREF_SEL: 1. 2. When (VDD33 - 0.91 * VDD18 > 1.98 V), E_PBIAS_BUF must be 0.
- When ((VDD33 - 0.83 * VDD18 > 1.98 V) && (E_PBIAS_BUF == 1)), VREF_SEL must be less than
1.
- When ((VDD33 - 0.77 * VDD18 > 1.98 V) && (E_PBIAS_BUF == 1)), VREF_SEL must be less than
2.
- When ((VDD33 - 0.71 * VDD18 > 1.98 V) && (E_PBIAS_BUF == 1)), VREF_SEL must be less than
3. 3. 4.
##### 9.4.3.2.3 Pad Controls Sequencing Requirements
1.
- To avoid remote chances of leakage and long-term reliability issues, E_33V needs to be set
before supplying 3.3 V to the 1.8/3.3 V dual-voltage pads. a.
- SDMMC1/SDMMC3 for removable card usage is covered by the SD card voltage switching
sequence.
- For cases where the I/O voltage usage is limited to 1.8 V, it is done as part PinMux/pad
control initialization. b. 2. (E_IO_HV = 0) needs to be programmed by the PinMux/pad control initialization BDPGLPHVIN pads which does not need to operate open-drain mode. Otherwise, the pad remains in open- drain mode and cannot function as a push-pull driver.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
##### 9.4.3.2.4 Pad Control Settings per PinMux Selection
The required Pad control settings for each of the interface varies per their electrical specs. This implies that the Power-on default settings may need to be re-programmed as part of the PinMux/ Pad Control initialization during MB1 (Micro-Boot stage1) by MB1 software.
#### 9.4.3.3 I/O Safe State Programming during IST
##### 9.4.3.3.1 Transitioning I/Os to DPD state
As part of the IST Safe state consideration, every unused I/O must be parked in a Static state. This means that BPMP and IST software need to transition every unused pad to the DPD/power-down state following DPD sequencing. Furthermore, software drivers as well as or firmware managing the I/Os needs to transition the interfaces to IDLE state prior to the DPD sequencing such that the I/Os Static state resembles the chip power-on state to avoid any complications with the connected devices.
- For all GPIO/MPIO-speed I/Os and few other bricks (for which DPD controls are driven out
from PMC) typical DPD programming sequence is generated by the PMC hardware and SC7 Finite State Machine following the pad DPD sequencing requirement.
- For all GPIO/MPIO-speed I/Os in PSC and FSI, the pad's DPD state is achieved by
programming the DPD controls (SEL_DPD, E_DPD) mapped registers in the PSC_AON and FSI
- PADCTL registers, respectively. A time delay of 1 ms is required between SEL_DPD enabling
and E_DPD enabling.
- For all remaining high-speed bricks, like DDR and UPHY bricks, special sequence/steps is
required to park them in safe state. Such sequence is not the scope of this chapter. Refer to HSIO and MSS chapter of this TRM for Safe State Parking Programming Sequences.
##### 9.4.3.3.2 Tri-state SHUTDOWN_N during IST
As part of the IST scheme and I/O safe state considerations, the SHUTDOWN_N output pad must be tri-stated during IST by programming the JTAG overrides of the SHUTDOWN_N pad controls:
- Program the JTAG overrides of SHUTDOWN_N pad controls which are used as electrical
configuration and to tri-state this I/O: (PADCTL_SYS_SHUTDOWN_N_0.PUPD = NONE). (PADCTL_SYS_SHUTDOWN_N_0.E_IO_HV = ENABLE). Set up the JTAG override register bits corresponding to this to drive logic High.
##### 9.4.3.3.3 Drive SOC_PWR_REQ HIGH during IST
- As part of the IST scheme and I/O safe state considerations, the SOC_PWR_REQ pad must be
parked at the asserted HIGH level by programming the following:

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
Set up the JTAG override register bits corresponding to this to drive logic High.
#### 9.4.3.4 Unused I/O Programming
Unused general purpose I/Os in a platform may be left unconnected however pad controls must be set per below guideline to avoid leakage and/or noise especially when I/O power supply is ON. Programming steps for different I/Os is summarized as below.
- Table 9.56 Unused I/O Programming with I/O Power Supply ON
- PHY/BRICK
- PAD Control Programming requirement when I/O is unused but I/O power supply is ON
- MPIO pads
- Following is done by platform Orin Customer PinMux. So required pad control programming is
automatically done through PinMux driver in MB1. No further software steps are needed.
- TRI-STATE enable, (PADCTL_<power_group>_<IO>_0.TRISTATE = 1)
- Input path disable, (PADCTL_<power_group>_<IO>_0.E_INPUT = 1)
- Weak pull-down enable, (PADCTL_<power_group>_<IO>_0.PUPD = 1)
- DDR I/O Brick
Park the unused bricks in DPD mode as per the EMC programming guide.
- DDR COMP
- Pads
Park the unused bricks in DPD mode as per the EMC programming guide.
- DDR_RESET_PA
D Park the unused bricks in DPD mode as per the EMC programming guide.
- HSIO UPHY
Park the unused brick lanes in IDDQ mode. Set IDDQ and RESET to asserted via per lane UPHY PADCTL registers. Enable pull-downs in the UPHY PADCTL registers.
- NVHS UPHY
Park the unused brick in IDDQ mode. Set IDDQ and RESET to asserted via UPHY PADCTL register. Enable pull-downs in the UPHY PADCTL registers.
- USB2 pads
Park unused bricks in DPD mode.
- Set PD* to 1 via XUSB PADCTL register XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD1_CTL_0_0
Enable weak pull-down by programming following bit fields. (XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0. MASTER_ENABLE = 1) (XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0. USBOP_RPD_A = 1) (XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0. USBON_RPD_A = 1)
- USB2 BIAS pad
- Power down the BIAS pad if all the USB2 bricks are not used (less likely)
Set (XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0.PD = 1).
- MIPI CSI/DSI
- PHY
Park the unused bricks in DPD mode to keep the PAD in quiescent state. Program fields corresponding to CSI/DSI bricks in PMC registers, i.e. PMC_IMPL_IO_CSI_DPD_REQ_0. Enable weak pull-downs in the pad. (NVCSI_PHY_0_NVCSI_CIL_<A-H>_PAD_CONFIG_0.SPARE_CLK_<A-H> = 1) (NVCSI_PHY_0_NVCSI_CIL_<A-H>_PAD_CONFIG_0.SPARE_IO1_<A-H> = 1) (NVCSI_PHY_0_NVCSI_CIL_<A-H>_PAD_CONFIG_0.SPARE_IO0_<A-H> = 1)
- MIPI BIAS pad
Park the BIAS pad in DPD mode if none of the CSI ports are used.
- Program the MIPI_BIAS bit field in PMC to enable DPD

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- PHY/BRICK
- PAD Control Programming requirement when I/O is unused but I/O power supply is ON
- DP/HDMI
- Combo PHY
Power down different elements in the PHY following the sequence below. Set override for power down signals from register:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX2_OVERRIDE_POWERDOWN
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX1_SEQ_PLLCAPPD_OVERRIDE
- Disable the Tx lanes, CAL, and wait for > 5 µs
Set PDCAL to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_DP_PADCTL0_0_PAD_CAL_PD_POWERDOWN
Set PD_TX* to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_DP_PADCTL0_0_PD_TXD_0..3_YES
Set PDPORT to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX7_PORT_POWERDOWN_ENABLE
Disable the PLL / charge-pump / VCO, and wait for > 5 µs. Set PLLCAPPD to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX8_SEQ_PLLCAPPD_ENFORCE_ENABLE
- Set PLLVCOPD to 1 through SOR reg: SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_VCOPD_YES
Set PDPLL to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL0_0_PWR_OFF
Assert PDBG to disable bandgap, and wait for > 5 µs. Set PDBG to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX6_BANDGAP_POWERDOWN_ENABLE
Assert DPD master power down control.
- Set E_DPD to 1 through PMC reg: PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD_REQ_0_HDMI_DP0..3_ON
- DP AUX pads
Park the unused bricks in DPD/Power down state.
- Set DPAUX_HYBRID_SPARE_0_PAD_PWR_POWERDOWN to `1’ corresponding to the DP-AUX
channel.
- PEX CLK out
pads Park the unused lanes in DPD mode.
- Set corresponding bit fields in PMC register PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD_REQ_0
#### 9.4.3.5 DPD Sequencing
When certain interface is not required to be active, group of pads associated with the interface may be put in power down (DPD) state to save power. Based on MPIO pad capabilities, and functional requirements:
- All non-AO groups of MPIO pads enter in to DPD state as part of SC7 entry and exit DPD
state as part of SC7 entry by PMC hardware.
- All AO groups of MPIO pads do not enter in to DPD state as part of SC7 entry and do exit
DPD state as part of SC7 exit by PMC hardware. Below is a reference guide for generic MPIO pad DPD sequencing during system active, PMC “Pad controls” sections software programming sequence shall be referred for precise programming steps. Steps outline for typical MPIO interface DPD entry and exit: DPD Entry:
- Software: Bring the I/O interface to Bus IDLE state. I/O controllers are brought into IDLE
state and subsequently the values they are driving towards the pads are stable.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Software: Program the PMC_IMPL_SEL_DPD_TIM_0 register as per SEL_DPD and E_DPD
timing requirements. The pad control inputs E_DPD and SEL_DPD are driven by PMC H/W meeting the timing requirement.
- Software: Set PMC PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD[DPD2/DPD7/DPD8]_REQ_0 register bit field(s)
corresponding to the group of pads or interface. DPD controls and mechanisms lists all such PMC DPD software knobs.
- Hardware: PMC runs the state machine to drive the DPD sequence control pins to enter i in
DPD state. SEL_DPD is asserted which triggers the pad to latch the pad inputs. E_DPD is asserted based on PMC_IMPL_SEL_DPD_TIM_0 configuration. Hardware: I/O state prior to entering to DPD is maintained while in DPD. DPD Exit: Software: Enable clocks and initialize respective I/O controller.
- Software: Clear PMC PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD[DPD2/DPD7/DPD8] _REQ_0 register bit field(s)
corresponding to the group of pads or interface. DPD controls and mechanisms lists all such PMC DPD software knobs.
- Hardware: PMC runs the state machine to drive the DPD sequence control pins to exit the
DPD state. SEL_DPD is de-asserted which triggers the pad to latch the pad inputs. E_DPD is de-asserted based on PMC_IMPL_SEL_DPD_TIM_0 configuration. Software: Proceeds with I/O interface programming for required interface operation.
##### 9.4.3.5.1 MPIO Pad DPD State Output Tweaking
In such cases the following sequence should be performed: SC7-entry-init: Configure the pad’s GPIO specific registers for desired pin state. SC7-entry-init: Change the pin to GPIO (as on output). SC7-entry-init: Drive the desired value.
- SC7-entry-init: Trigger to DPD mode by setting bit, i.e. PMC_IMPL_DPDx_REQ in PMC to
sample the correct value. Proceed with SC7-entry sequence. SC7-exit: Do the PinMux recovery. SC7-exit: Change the pin from GPIO to SFIO and associate with the respective controller. SC7-exit Ensure the controller is configured to drive correct value what is getting driven in the pad so that there is no glitch when the pad is coming out of DPD. SC7-exit: Bring the pads out of DPD.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- PHY/Brick SC7 Entry/Exit
Most of the unused PHY/Bricks I/O states are parked to tri-state and hence they are put into Low-
- Power state during SC7 and brought out of power down modes during SC7 exit. Refer to
respective HSIO/DDR architecture documents for the same.
- Bringing I/O Rails Down During SC7
To realize lowest possible leakage power, it’s possible to power down I/O rails in conjunction with Orin Low-Power states such as SC7. Orin I/O rails may be shared with the interfacing device and hence the possibility of powering off I/O rails goes case by case based on interface/platform.
- Discrete Pad’s I/O Rails in SC7
Normally the I/O rails of the discrete pads are ON during SC7 to support wakes etc. However, to aggressively reduce system power it may be turned OFF in specific platforms depending on use case requirements. I/O rail power on/off has special considerations with regards to power sequencing and duly meeting MPIO pad functional requirements as listed in DPD controls handling and Low-Power state aspects. Important note with regards to turning ON I/O rails:
- MPIO pads VDDP supply must not be powered ON while the pad is in DPD mode. Deep sleep
exit turning ON I/O rails has modification in Orin. Reset is asserted to exit the DPD mode (rather to say ensure MPIO pad is not in DPD mode) before I/O rails are powered ON. See the Power Management Controller chapter for more details.
- PHY/Bricks I/O Rail in SC7
Bricks are put in their respective Low-Power mode and the control mechanism differs for each brick. The Low-Power mode mechanisms of different bricks are captured in Low-Power Modes for PHYs as a reference. Respective software drivers for the brick like Display Driver, Camera Driver puts the bricks in Low-Power mode when interface is IDLE. Low-Power/DPD programming shall refer to respective HSIO/DDR architecture documents.
#### 9.4.3.6 Wake Events Configuration
To enable wake triggering when wake capable pad is in active state, the E_INPUT pad control needs to be programmed HIGH to enable receiver path in pad. However, such wake capable pad is in DPD state (E_DPD = 1, SEL_DPD = 1) enables receiver path to trigger wake irrespective of E_INPUT pad control setting. To avoid corner case scenarios of missing wake events during DPD and active states, it’s recommended to set E_INPUT = 1 setting for wake capable pads. It is required to setup E_INPUT = 1 (Enable) by software post-boot for all the wake event supported pads relevant for a platform.

- PinMux Registers
Most of the mechanical buttons act as SC7 wake source which means their key press to be de- bounced during SC7. Beyond which the wake events must be protected from noise spikes. So, wake sensing logic in PMC does glitch filtering and de-bounce capability. Wake programming consists of various signaling, routing and masking register configuration in PMC. The following is a highlight of wake signal conditioning capabilities are supported. De-bounce selection: DEBOUNCE_CLK = 1 kHz: Any wake events width less than 31 µs is ignored. DEBOUNCE_CLK = 32 kHz: Any wake events width less than 31 µs is ignored. De-glitch: If enabled, Glitches <= 2 ns are filtered out. For more details. refer to the PMC section titled Wake Engine Programming.}(@{Key=9.4.3; Title=Programming Guidelines; Body=Some controller instances make their set of signals available on two or more sets of MPIO’s. To say it another way, such controllers have more than one “interface.” Note: Before using any controller, make sure that the PinMux registers are programmed to bring out the controller’s signals on a maximum of one interface.
#### 9.4.3.1 PinMux Programming
PinMuxing configurations are static. PinMuxing provides the flexibility to choose a pin for different function across different platforms, but not to change them dynamically.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
In specific cases, based on use case requirement it is needed to change a pin from SFIO to GPIO or vice versa. Although PinMux selection dynamic changing is not supported, SFIO to GPIO or vice versa changes are allowed. Subsection outlines the PinMux programming, SFIO/GPIO switching programming and such pad control programming guidelines.
##### 9.4.3.1.1 Changing a PinMux Selection
PinMux programming to select the pin function is part of respective I/O initialization. Below sequence are a reference and confines to general purpose pad I/Os which are shared by multiple low-speed interface controllers (SFIO).
- Ensure that all the interface controllers sharing the pins are in in-active state, so that
possible glitches do not result corruption in downstream logic.
- Change the PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name> .PM value to desired I/O function
enumerated per pin.
- Initialize the respective SFIO controller and follow required SFIO interface programming
guide.
##### 9.4.3.1.2 Driving Source Change from SFIO to GPIO
Pads are by-default owned by SFIO Primary function or Alternative options can be switched as software driven GPIO as follows:
- Configure the pad’s GPIO specific registers for correct value for output mode with the
correct value as specified in GPIO section. This ensures the new source is ready with the correct value.
- Change the pad control register, i.e. PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<Ball_Name>.GPIO_SF_SEL bit
field register corresponding a pin to 1’b0 for GPIO selection.
- Follow the GPIO controller programming model depending on desired GPIO function as
specified in GPIO section (Input or output to a value or input with Interrupt etc.).
##### 9.4.3.1.3 Driving Source Change from GPIO to SFIO
Pads currently set up in GPIO mode may be switched back to SFIO function as follows:
- Change the pad control register, i.e. PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<Ball_Name>.GPIO_SF_SEL bit
field register corresponding a pin to “1” for SFIO selection.
- Initialize the respective SFIO controller and follow required SFIO interface programming
guide.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
##### 9.4.3.1.4 Programming Sequence for Input Mode
After cold boot based on platform configuration (typically obtained from the Boot Loader) different LSIO functional controllers must be mapped to specific I/O pin. The following is the programming sequence for that:
- Set PM field as per PinMux selection in pad control register
- PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.PM =
0x0: Primary 0x1: Alt1 0x2: Alt2 0x3: Alt3
- Set SFIO/GPIO selection to SFIO selection,
(PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.GPIO_SFIO_SEL = HSIO) (nothing but SFIO).
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = TRISTATE) to disable SoC
functional logic driving the I/O. Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT= ENABLE) to turn on input receiver. The specific I/O controllers driving the I/Os is configured and activated.
##### 9.4.3.1.5 Programming Sequence for Output Mode and Bi-directional Mode
- Normal Push-pull Pad
- Set PM field as per PinMux selection in pad control register
- PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.PM =
0x0: Primary 0x1: Alt1 0x2: Alt2 0x3: Alt3
- Set SFIO/GPIO selection to SFIO selection,
(PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.GPIO_SFIO_SEL = HSIO) (nothing but SFIO).
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) to enable
selected SFIO functional logic driving the I/Os.
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT = ENABLE) for bidirectional
configuration, or
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT = DISABALE) for output only
configuration The specific I/O controllers driving I/O is thus configured and activated.
- Open-drain Pad

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
Open drain pads are used to emulate Wired-AND functionality, where in multiple drivers can be shorted on the board with an external pull-up. These pads don’t drive active HIGH, instead it drives active LOW or float the pin. Platform pull-up shall ensure correct value on the node, i.e. if all the drivers are floating it is at Logic1 and if any of the drivers are driving active LOW, bus state is at Logic0. Such pads require a different programming sequence. So, any logic (both functional or software based GPIO) shall never the program/drive pads to Active 1. Both the ST pads and DD pads able to operate in open drain Mode. But the DD pads have specific control to tolerate the I/O swing of 3.3 V.
## 3.3 V Tolerance and Open-drain Operation
Configure the pad for 3.3 V swing tolerance by enabling the E_IO_HV pad control, i.e. (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_*.E_IO_HV = 1). Applicable to DD pads when it has to tolerate 3.3 V. Typically, other than the PMIC interface, which is guaranteed to operate at 1.8 V for all the other DD pads pad control field E_IO_HV is set to 1 as Reset default to ensure that they come with 3.3 V tolerance mode. E_IO_HV pad control must be set to 1 before I/O can be pulled to > 1.8 V.
- Set (PADCTL_<pactcl_group>_<ball_ame>_*.TRISTATE = TRISTATE). Even when the functional
logic driving Logic 1, the pad is in open drain driver mode and it is floated through an external pull-up. Enabling internal pull-up is ignored by the pad when the E_IO_HV is set though this is not the recommended.
## 1.8 V Tolerance and Open-drain Operation
To emulate open drain in 1.8V mode of operation: have the platform design float the pad with external pull-up, or program (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>.PUPD = PULLUP). To configure the Pad for 1.8V swing tolerance: setting (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>.E_IO_HV = 0). To drive high Impedance into the pad set: (PADCTL_<pactcl_group>_<ball_ame>_*.TRISTATE = TRISTATE).
## 1.8 V Tolerance/Driving and Push-Pull Operation
Since DD pads can be operated in normal push pull mode as well as open drain mode to emulate the push-pull mode the following configuration is followed. To put the open-drain pad in 1.8 V push-pull mode operation: Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>.E_IO_HV = DISABLE).
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = PASSTHROUGH) to enable
functional logic driving/sampling the I/O.
- Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .E_INPUT = ENABLE) for bi-directional mode of
operation. The specific I/O controllers driving the I/O is configured and activated.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
#### 9.4.3.2 Pad Control Programming
##### 9.4.3.2.1 Set Pad to High Impedance State
To select the pad for drive high impedance state: Set (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .TRISTATE = TRISTATE).
- Ensure (PADCTL_<padctl_group>_<ball_name>_* .PUPD == 0) to confirm that internal pull-
up/pull-down is disabled.
##### 9.4.3.2.2 E_PBIAS_BUF and VREF_SEL Pad Controls
- Programming E_PBIAS_BUF and VREF_SEL pad controls to BDSDMEM_* pads incorrectly may result
in electrical damage. E_PBIAS_BUF and VREF_SEL should be programmed in the following cases:
- VDD33 and VDD18 in the same direction
- HIGH VDD33 along with LOW VDD18
- To prevent overstress, use the following guidelines when programming E_PBIAS_BUF and
VREF_SEL: 1. 2. When (VDD33 - 0.91 * VDD18 > 1.98 V), E_PBIAS_BUF must be 0.
- When ((VDD33 - 0.83 * VDD18 > 1.98 V) && (E_PBIAS_BUF == 1)), VREF_SEL must be less than
1.
- When ((VDD33 - 0.77 * VDD18 > 1.98 V) && (E_PBIAS_BUF == 1)), VREF_SEL must be less than
2.
- When ((VDD33 - 0.71 * VDD18 > 1.98 V) && (E_PBIAS_BUF == 1)), VREF_SEL must be less than
3. 3. 4.
##### 9.4.3.2.3 Pad Controls Sequencing Requirements
1.
- To avoid remote chances of leakage and long-term reliability issues, E_33V needs to be set
before supplying 3.3 V to the 1.8/3.3 V dual-voltage pads. a.
- SDMMC1/SDMMC3 for removable card usage is covered by the SD card voltage switching
sequence.
- For cases where the I/O voltage usage is limited to 1.8 V, it is done as part PinMux/pad
control initialization. b. 2. (E_IO_HV = 0) needs to be programmed by the PinMux/pad control initialization BDPGLPHVIN pads which does not need to operate open-drain mode. Otherwise, the pad remains in open- drain mode and cannot function as a push-pull driver.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
##### 9.4.3.2.4 Pad Control Settings per PinMux Selection
The required Pad control settings for each of the interface varies per their electrical specs. This implies that the Power-on default settings may need to be re-programmed as part of the PinMux/ Pad Control initialization during MB1 (Micro-Boot stage1) by MB1 software.
#### 9.4.3.3 I/O Safe State Programming during IST
##### 9.4.3.3.1 Transitioning I/Os to DPD state
As part of the IST Safe state consideration, every unused I/O must be parked in a Static state. This means that BPMP and IST software need to transition every unused pad to the DPD/power-down state following DPD sequencing. Furthermore, software drivers as well as or firmware managing the I/Os needs to transition the interfaces to IDLE state prior to the DPD sequencing such that the I/Os Static state resembles the chip power-on state to avoid any complications with the connected devices.
- For all GPIO/MPIO-speed I/Os and few other bricks (for which DPD controls are driven out
from PMC) typical DPD programming sequence is generated by the PMC hardware and SC7 Finite State Machine following the pad DPD sequencing requirement.
- For all GPIO/MPIO-speed I/Os in PSC and FSI, the pad's DPD state is achieved by
programming the DPD controls (SEL_DPD, E_DPD) mapped registers in the PSC_AON and FSI
- PADCTL registers, respectively. A time delay of 1 ms is required between SEL_DPD enabling
and E_DPD enabling.
- For all remaining high-speed bricks, like DDR and UPHY bricks, special sequence/steps is
required to park them in safe state. Such sequence is not the scope of this chapter. Refer to HSIO and MSS chapter of this TRM for Safe State Parking Programming Sequences.
##### 9.4.3.3.2 Tri-state SHUTDOWN_N during IST
As part of the IST scheme and I/O safe state considerations, the SHUTDOWN_N output pad must be tri-stated during IST by programming the JTAG overrides of the SHUTDOWN_N pad controls:
- Program the JTAG overrides of SHUTDOWN_N pad controls which are used as electrical
configuration and to tri-state this I/O: (PADCTL_SYS_SHUTDOWN_N_0.PUPD = NONE). (PADCTL_SYS_SHUTDOWN_N_0.E_IO_HV = ENABLE). Set up the JTAG override register bits corresponding to this to drive logic High.
##### 9.4.3.3.3 Drive SOC_PWR_REQ HIGH during IST
- As part of the IST scheme and I/O safe state considerations, the SOC_PWR_REQ pad must be
parked at the asserted HIGH level by programming the following:

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
Set up the JTAG override register bits corresponding to this to drive logic High.
#### 9.4.3.4 Unused I/O Programming
Unused general purpose I/Os in a platform may be left unconnected however pad controls must be set per below guideline to avoid leakage and/or noise especially when I/O power supply is ON. Programming steps for different I/Os is summarized as below.
- Table 9.56 Unused I/O Programming with I/O Power Supply ON
- PHY/BRICK
- PAD Control Programming requirement when I/O is unused but I/O power supply is ON
- MPIO pads
- Following is done by platform Orin Customer PinMux. So required pad control programming is
automatically done through PinMux driver in MB1. No further software steps are needed.
- TRI-STATE enable, (PADCTL_<power_group>_<IO>_0.TRISTATE = 1)
- Input path disable, (PADCTL_<power_group>_<IO>_0.E_INPUT = 1)
- Weak pull-down enable, (PADCTL_<power_group>_<IO>_0.PUPD = 1)
- DDR I/O Brick
Park the unused bricks in DPD mode as per the EMC programming guide.
- DDR COMP
- Pads
Park the unused bricks in DPD mode as per the EMC programming guide.
- DDR_RESET_PA
D Park the unused bricks in DPD mode as per the EMC programming guide.
- HSIO UPHY
Park the unused brick lanes in IDDQ mode. Set IDDQ and RESET to asserted via per lane UPHY PADCTL registers. Enable pull-downs in the UPHY PADCTL registers.
- NVHS UPHY
Park the unused brick in IDDQ mode. Set IDDQ and RESET to asserted via UPHY PADCTL register. Enable pull-downs in the UPHY PADCTL registers.
- USB2 pads
Park unused bricks in DPD mode.
- Set PD* to 1 via XUSB PADCTL register XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_OTG_PAD1_CTL_0_0
Enable weak pull-down by programming following bit fields. (XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_CFG_0. MASTER_ENABLE = 1) (XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0. USBOP_RPD_A = 1) (XUSB_AO_UTMIP_SLEEPWALK_0. USBON_RPD_A = 1)
- USB2 BIAS pad
- Power down the BIAS pad if all the USB2 bricks are not used (less likely)
Set (XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_BIAS_PAD_CTL_0_0.PD = 1).
- MIPI CSI/DSI
- PHY
Park the unused bricks in DPD mode to keep the PAD in quiescent state. Program fields corresponding to CSI/DSI bricks in PMC registers, i.e. PMC_IMPL_IO_CSI_DPD_REQ_0. Enable weak pull-downs in the pad. (NVCSI_PHY_0_NVCSI_CIL_<A-H>_PAD_CONFIG_0.SPARE_CLK_<A-H> = 1) (NVCSI_PHY_0_NVCSI_CIL_<A-H>_PAD_CONFIG_0.SPARE_IO1_<A-H> = 1) (NVCSI_PHY_0_NVCSI_CIL_<A-H>_PAD_CONFIG_0.SPARE_IO0_<A-H> = 1)
- MIPI BIAS pad
Park the BIAS pad in DPD mode if none of the CSI ports are used.
- Program the MIPI_BIAS bit field in PMC to enable DPD

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- PHY/BRICK
- PAD Control Programming requirement when I/O is unused but I/O power supply is ON
- DP/HDMI
- Combo PHY
Power down different elements in the PHY following the sequence below. Set override for power down signals from register:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX2_OVERRIDE_POWERDOWN
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX1_SEQ_PLLCAPPD_OVERRIDE
- Disable the Tx lanes, CAL, and wait for > 5 µs
Set PDCAL to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_DP_PADCTL0_0_PAD_CAL_PD_POWERDOWN
Set PD_TX* to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_DP_PADCTL0_0_PD_TXD_0..3_YES
Set PDPORT to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX7_PORT_POWERDOWN_ENABLE
Disable the PLL / charge-pump / VCO, and wait for > 5 µs. Set PLLCAPPD to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX8_SEQ_PLLCAPPD_ENFORCE_ENABLE
- Set PLLVCOPD to 1 through SOR reg: SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_VCOPD_YES
Set PDPLL to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL0_0_PWR_OFF
Assert PDBG to disable bandgap, and wait for > 5 µs. Set PDBG to 1 through SOR reg:
- SOR_NV_PDISP_SOR_PLL2_0_AUX6_BANDGAP_POWERDOWN_ENABLE
Assert DPD master power down control.
- Set E_DPD to 1 through PMC reg: PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD_REQ_0_HDMI_DP0..3_ON
- DP AUX pads
Park the unused bricks in DPD/Power down state.
- Set DPAUX_HYBRID_SPARE_0_PAD_PWR_POWERDOWN to `1’ corresponding to the DP-AUX
channel.
- PEX CLK out
pads Park the unused lanes in DPD mode.
- Set corresponding bit fields in PMC register PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD_REQ_0
#### 9.4.3.5 DPD Sequencing
When certain interface is not required to be active, group of pads associated with the interface may be put in power down (DPD) state to save power. Based on MPIO pad capabilities, and functional requirements:
- All non-AO groups of MPIO pads enter in to DPD state as part of SC7 entry and exit DPD
state as part of SC7 entry by PMC hardware.
- All AO groups of MPIO pads do not enter in to DPD state as part of SC7 entry and do exit
DPD state as part of SC7 exit by PMC hardware. Below is a reference guide for generic MPIO pad DPD sequencing during system active, PMC “Pad controls” sections software programming sequence shall be referred for precise programming steps. Steps outline for typical MPIO interface DPD entry and exit: DPD Entry:
- Software: Bring the I/O interface to Bus IDLE state. I/O controllers are brought into IDLE
state and subsequently the values they are driving towards the pads are stable.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Software: Program the PMC_IMPL_SEL_DPD_TIM_0 register as per SEL_DPD and E_DPD
timing requirements. The pad control inputs E_DPD and SEL_DPD are driven by PMC H/W meeting the timing requirement.
- Software: Set PMC PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD[DPD2/DPD7/DPD8]_REQ_0 register bit field(s)
corresponding to the group of pads or interface. DPD controls and mechanisms lists all such PMC DPD software knobs.
- Hardware: PMC runs the state machine to drive the DPD sequence control pins to enter i in
DPD state. SEL_DPD is asserted which triggers the pad to latch the pad inputs. E_DPD is asserted based on PMC_IMPL_SEL_DPD_TIM_0 configuration. Hardware: I/O state prior to entering to DPD is maintained while in DPD. DPD Exit: Software: Enable clocks and initialize respective I/O controller.
- Software: Clear PMC PMC_IMPL_IO_DPD[DPD2/DPD7/DPD8] _REQ_0 register bit field(s)
corresponding to the group of pads or interface. DPD controls and mechanisms lists all such PMC DPD software knobs.
- Hardware: PMC runs the state machine to drive the DPD sequence control pins to exit the
DPD state. SEL_DPD is de-asserted which triggers the pad to latch the pad inputs. E_DPD is de-asserted based on PMC_IMPL_SEL_DPD_TIM_0 configuration. Software: Proceeds with I/O interface programming for required interface operation.
##### 9.4.3.5.1 MPIO Pad DPD State Output Tweaking
In such cases the following sequence should be performed: SC7-entry-init: Configure the pad’s GPIO specific registers for desired pin state. SC7-entry-init: Change the pin to GPIO (as on output). SC7-entry-init: Drive the desired value.
- SC7-entry-init: Trigger to DPD mode by setting bit, i.e. PMC_IMPL_DPDx_REQ in PMC to
sample the correct value. Proceed with SC7-entry sequence. SC7-exit: Do the PinMux recovery. SC7-exit: Change the pin from GPIO to SFIO and associate with the respective controller. SC7-exit Ensure the controller is configured to drive correct value what is getting driven in the pad so that there is no glitch when the pad is coming out of DPD. SC7-exit: Bring the pads out of DPD.

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- PHY/Brick SC7 Entry/Exit
Most of the unused PHY/Bricks I/O states are parked to tri-state and hence they are put into Low-
- Power state during SC7 and brought out of power down modes during SC7 exit. Refer to
respective HSIO/DDR architecture documents for the same.
- Bringing I/O Rails Down During SC7
To realize lowest possible leakage power, it’s possible to power down I/O rails in conjunction with Orin Low-Power states such as SC7. Orin I/O rails may be shared with the interfacing device and hence the possibility of powering off I/O rails goes case by case based on interface/platform.
- Discrete Pad’s I/O Rails in SC7
Normally the I/O rails of the discrete pads are ON during SC7 to support wakes etc. However, to aggressively reduce system power it may be turned OFF in specific platforms depending on use case requirements. I/O rail power on/off has special considerations with regards to power sequencing and duly meeting MPIO pad functional requirements as listed in DPD controls handling and Low-Power state aspects. Important note with regards to turning ON I/O rails:
- MPIO pads VDDP supply must not be powered ON while the pad is in DPD mode. Deep sleep
exit turning ON I/O rails has modification in Orin. Reset is asserted to exit the DPD mode (rather to say ensure MPIO pad is not in DPD mode) before I/O rails are powered ON. See the Power Management Controller chapter for more details.
- PHY/Bricks I/O Rail in SC7
Bricks are put in their respective Low-Power mode and the control mechanism differs for each brick. The Low-Power mode mechanisms of different bricks are captured in Low-Power Modes for PHYs as a reference. Respective software drivers for the brick like Display Driver, Camera Driver puts the bricks in Low-Power mode when interface is IDLE. Low-Power/DPD programming shall refer to respective HSIO/DDR architecture documents.
#### 9.4.3.6 Wake Events Configuration
To enable wake triggering when wake capable pad is in active state, the E_INPUT pad control needs to be programmed HIGH to enable receiver path in pad. However, such wake capable pad is in DPD state (E_DPD = 1, SEL_DPD = 1) enables receiver path to trigger wake irrespective of E_INPUT pad control setting. To avoid corner case scenarios of missing wake events during DPD and active states, it’s recommended to set E_INPUT = 1 setting for wake capable pads. It is required to setup E_INPUT = 1 (Enable) by software post-boot for all the wake event supported pads relevant for a platform.

- PinMux Registers
Most of the mechanical buttons act as SC7 wake source which means their key press to be de- bounced during SC7. Beyond which the wake events must be protected from noise spikes. So, wake sensing logic in PMC does glitch filtering and de-bounce capability. Wake programming consists of various signaling, routing and masking register configuration in PMC. The following is a highlight of wake signal conditioning capabilities are supported. De-bounce selection: DEBOUNCE_CLK = 1 kHz: Any wake events width less than 31 µs is ignored. DEBOUNCE_CLK = 32 kHz: Any wake events width less than 31 µs is ignored. De-glitch: If enabled, Glitches <= 2 ns are filtered out. For more details. refer to the PMC section titled Wake Engine Programming.}.Body)
