# 9.4.2 Functional Description

#### 9.4.2.1 Programmable Drive Strength Capabilities
This section summarizes the programmable drive strength capabilities of various pads in the granularity of pad groups. 1. SDMEM pads which do not have calibration pad, do not have programmable drive strength registers. The DRVUP_VCLAMP [6:0]/DRVDN_VCLAMP [6:0] codes are hard wired to corresponding power group VCLAMP and GND respectively. Pins in the following pad group have a 2-bit back-up drive strength control:
- AO_HV, AUDIO_HV
2. SDMEMLV pads without calibration pad have programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad group:
- UFS, EQOS
3. BDPGLP, BDPGLPHVIN pads without calibration pad have programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad groups: All CONN, CAM, and MPIO pad groups as listed in the Orin Pinmux document. 4. SDMEM pads with calibration pad have their drive strength controlled by the COMP pad and their overriding and programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad groups:
- SDMMC1_HV, SDMMC3_HV

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
5. SDMEMLV pads with calibration pad have their drive strength controlled by the COMP pad and their overriding and programmable drive strength registers as in the following pad group:
- QSPI
The typical drive impedance is 50 Ω for all the cases (1. through 5.) above. For all the pads that do not have corresponding calibration pads (i.e. 1. through 3. above) the drive strength must be programmed. The Power-On Reset default value in such cases typically works fine as the low interface speed and trace design does not need higher drive codes. For all the pads with the drive strength calibration feature and hardware drive strength calibration logic, their interface initialization needs to include such drive strength calibration. Software must follow the individual unit's interface initialization guides to ensure that drive strength calibration is taken care of one-time during power-up, or periodically by programming the drive codes to compensate for PVT variations.
#### 9.4.2.2 Pin-states and Default Pad Controls
Each of the Orin I/O's default pin-state is defined based on primary interface bus idle signal level requirements. Other than functional interface pins, GPIO pins default pin-state is pull-down. There are few exceptions like GPIOs used for button matrix require default pin-state to be pull-up to save external strong pull-ups and platform cost. Ultimately, the Power-On Reset field in the Orin Pinmux document captures this information per pin including all the exceptions based on platform consideration. Either during cold-boot or warm-boot power cycling, pin-states defaults to the Reset values captured in the POR field of the Orin Pinmux document. The following provides the connection to Reset types which has implications to pin-states of pad controls. Further, the following per pin fields as captured in the Orin Pinmux document are used to derive the pad control field Reset default value for each pin.
- POR – Pin state at Reset/Power-On
Z (Pin Tri-stated). PU/1 (Pin Pulled-Up). PD/0 (Pin Pulled-Down).
- Tristate_en
Passthrough (Pin active, i.e. drive value for output; transparent for input). Tristate (Pin Tri-stated).
- PU/PD
Pad control setting Pull-Up/Down is enabled for pad internal weak Pull-Down or Pull-Up. E_INPUT

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
Pad control setting to enable input receiver path which is irrespective of pad I/O direction. E_IO_HV
- Pad control setting to select for 3.3 V tolerance. Applicable for BDPGLPHVIN, open-drain
capable pads. E_LPDR
- Pad control setting to turn of drivers inside pad. Applicable for BDPGLP and BDPGLPHVIN
pad types.
- Table 9.47 Resets Impacting Pin-state
- Pins
- Reset connection
- All pads on I/O rails excluding VDDIO_PWR_CTL
- L2 warm Reset
- Pads on VDDIO_PWR_CTL
- L1 warm Reset
For the pins in VDDIO_PWR_CTL all the pad control registers, associated GPIO logic works on L1 warm Reset unlike all MPIO pads in various other groups.
##### 9.4.2.2.1 GPIO Pin-state, Pad Controls Managed by software
Apart from the pin-states, pad controls coming up as Reset defaults, following two cases where software manages the pin-state, pad control based on platform configuration. GPIO/special purpose pins which are part of I/O rails that are active during SC7 power state transitions shall be managed by software. GPIO/special purpose pins which are not part of Always-on I/O rails but require different pin- state vs the default pin-state are managed by software as per customer PinMux configuration in Customer PinMux.
#### 9.4.2.3 I/O Electrical Capabilities and Special Handling
The Orin I/Os are typically connected to various external devices powered by regulators which may be shared between Orin and other system components. Given this board-level design nature, and to satisfy the specifics of power-up, power-down, and transitioning in and out of SC7 (or equivalent) Low-Power states, the following system-level exposure scenarios are possible:
- Voltage Tolerance - I/Os can be exposed to the maximum tolerance voltage, when the I/O
power-rails are on.
- Fail-Safe - I/Os can be exposed to the maximum fail-safe voltage resulting in high-leakage
current without I/O damage, when the I/O power-rails are off. Given that the Fail-safe situation could result in high-leakage current, the leakage current calculation for reference is given as follows:

- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Leakage current (estimated) = [External device voltage (1.8 or 3.3 V) – Orin OFF VDDP
voltage] / External device drive strength.
- Back-Drive - I/Os can be pulled HIGH without back-driving to off-power-rail, even when I/O
power-rails are off. This section provides an overview of the Orin I/O electrical capabilities with respect to these different system-level scenarios.
##### 9.4.2.3.1 Back-Drive Tolerant GPIO/LSIO Interfaces
Interfaces or pins that are expected to be driven by the external components with relevant pad power rails switched OFF require a special pad type with back-drive support. In Orin, BDPGLPHVIN_* & BILPRST_* pad types are built for such purposes. I/O with Back-Drive Capability implies that:

