# 9.5.1 Overview

The GPIO Controllers allow control of General Purpose IO pins for a variety of system functions. In addition to the basic GPIO functionalities, the GPIO Controllers also support virtualization and a

- GPIO Controllers
secure access control mechanism with firewalls. The following key words are used in the description of the GPIO Controllers:
- GPIO Pin
A single General-Purpose I/O pin which may share a physical I/O pin with other functional I/ O pins through Pin Multiplexing (PinMux).
- For details of how the PinMux mechanism works, refer to the Programming Model section
of the PinMux chapter in this TRM.
- PinMux details are provided by NVIDIA in the form of a spreadsheet, referred to just as
Pinmux. Please ask your NVIDIA representative for details.
- GPIO Port
A collection of up to eight GPIO Pins that are physically close to one another.
- GPIO Controller
A GPIO Controller instance controlling up to eight GPIO Ports, or 64 GPIO Pins, based on the address map available for the GPIO Controller instance's APB client.
- Hypervisor (HV)
A low-level software layer managing hardware resources and memory, and supporting one or more Guest Operating Systems by providing communication and isolation to them.
- Guest OS
The OS running on a Virtual Machine (VM).
#### 9.5.1.1 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Clock and Reset Controller (CAR)
- Interrupt Controllers
vGIC Interrupt Controller
- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Timers
#### 9.5.1.2 Features
There are altogether nine GPIO Controllers in the Orin SoC. Six in VDD_SOC core power (TOP cluster). One in VDD_RTC core power (AON cluster).

- GPIO Controllers
Two in VDD_FSI core power (FSI cluster). Each of the GPIO Controller maps to a set of GPIO Ports in association with their Pad Control Groups as shown in the table below.
- Table 9.57 GPIO Controllers and Port Mapping
- GPIO Controller
- GPIO Ports
- Pad Control Groups
- Padlet Group / Voltage Domain
- GPIO_CTL0
A (8)*
- G5
- VDDIO_G5
B (1)*
- DEBUG
- VDDIO_DEBUG
- AC (8)*
- AD (4)*
- G7
- VDDIO_G7
- GPIO_CTL1
X (8)* Y (8)* Z (8)*
- G2
- VDDIO_G2
- GPIO_CTL2
M (8)* N (8)*
- EDP
- VDDIO_EDP
P (8)* Q (8)* R (6)*
- G3
- VDDIO_G3
- GPIO_CTL3
K (8)* L (4)*
- PEX_CTL
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL
- AE (2)*
- UFS
- VDDIO_UFS
- AF (4)*
- PEX_CTL_2
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL_2
- AG (8)*
- PEX_CTL_3
- VDDIO_PEX_CTL_3
- GPIO_CTL4
G (8)* H (8)* I (7)*
- G4
- VDDIO_G4
- GPIO_CTL5
C (8)* D (4)*
- QSPI
- VDDIO_QSPI
E (8)* F (6)*
- EQOS
- VDDIO_EQOS
J (6)*
- SDMMC1_HV
- VDDIO_SDMMC1_HV
- GPIO_AON
- AA (8)*
- BB (4)*
- AO_HV
- VDDIO_AO_HV
- CC (8)*
- DD (3)*
- AO
- VDDIO_AO
- EE (8)*
- GG (1)*
- SYS
- VDDIO_SYS
- GPIO_FSI_CTL0
S (8)* T (2)*
- G9
- VDDIO_G9

- GPIO Controllers
- GPIO Controller
- GPIO Ports
- Pad Control Groups
- Padlet Group / Voltage Domain
W (2)*
- G11
- VDDIO_G11
- GPIO_FSI_CTL1
U (8)* V (1)*
- G10
- VDDIO_G10
- : Number of GPIO Pins in the given GPIO Port.
The Orin GPIO Controllers support over 200 GPIO Pins (217 to be exact), most of which share physical I/O pins with other functional (including testing) I/O's under the control of PinMux and Pad
- Control. The following diagram illustrates the functional structure encompassing the GPIO
Controller, PAD Control, PinMux, and physical I/O pins.
**Figure 9.48 Functional Structure Encompassing GPIO Controller, LSIO Controllers, PAD Control,**
- PinMux, and Physical I/O Pins
For details of the PAD Control and PinMux, refer to the PinMux chapter in this TRM.

