# 9.5.4 Programming Model

The section discusses the programming model of the GPIO Controllers excluding any Security- related topics.
#### 9.5.4.1 GPIO Pad Control Initialization
A GPIO Controller manages a few variants of MPIO/LSIO pads. This means that one such MPIO/ LSIO pad can function as I2C, UART, SPI, or GPIO. Every physical pin/pad has its control registers to fine tune the electrical characteristics and turn on the input receiver circuits, and etc. Refer to the PinMux chapter in this TRM for details on the initialization of Pad and PinMux controls for GPIO mode.

- GPIO Controllers
The discussions regarding GPIO input/Output/Bi-directional operations in the following sub- sections are illustrated for GPIO_CTL0 and based on the premise that proper initialization of registers in the PADCTL address space are already taken care of as needed.
#### 9.5.4.2 GPIO Input Configuration
1. Enabling the Clocks for the specific GPIO Controller. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_GPIO_CTL0_0.SWR_GPIO_CTL0_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_GPIO_CTL0_0.CLK_ENB_GPIO_CTL0 = 1) NOTE:
- Clocks are enabled by default during cold boot and few GPIOs are enabled by Boot
Loader.
- However, this step may be required by the run-time driver as Clocks may have been
disabled as result of run-time power saving. 2. Configuring the GPIO input path. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT = IN)
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTION/
INTERRUPT_FUNCTION per use case requirements.
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_LEVEL/TRIGGER_TYPE/
DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION per use case requirements. 3. Setting GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0 with appropriate value based on the debounce requirements of the platform. 4. Ensuring that the AON TSC is configured for generating the msec pulse. 5. Setting (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>.GPIO_ENABLE = ENABLE) to complete the GPIO configuration and enable GPIO. 6. Starting Polling/Reading GPIO_<i>_INPUT_0<j>.GPIO_IN to read the GPIO input value. NOTE:
- When Interrupt is enabled, Interrupt is triggered based on GPIO input processing
selection. 7. Optional step:
- Polling GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0 for a specific Security Master (<jj>) when
proper Interrupt triggers are configured.

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.4.3 GPIO Output/Bi-directional Configuration
1. Enabling e the Clocks for the specific GPIO Controller. (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_GPIO_CTL0_0.SWR_GPIO_CTL0_RST = 0) (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_OUT_ENB_GPIO_CTL0_0.CLK_ENB_GPIO_CTL0 = 1) NOTE:
- Clocks are enabled by default during cold boot and few GPIOs are enabled by Boot
Loader.
- However, this step may be required by the run-time driver as Clocks may have been
disabled as result of run-time power saving. 2. Configuring the GPIO direction. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT = OUT) NOTE:
- OUT configuration does not block the input path. Hence, the GPIO so configured also
serves as bi-directional. 3. Configuring the GPIO input path (for bi-directional). (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT = IN)
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTION/
INTERRUPT_FUNCTION per use case requirements.
- Configuring GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_LEVEL/TRIGGER_TYPE/
DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION per use case requirements. 4. Setting GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0 with appropriate value based on the debounce requirements of the platform. 5. Ensuring that the AON TSC is configured for generating the msec pulse. (Not required for GPIO output mode). 6. Setting value to be driven out. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_VALUE = value) 7. Configuring GPO Pin to DRIVE state to drive the value actively. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL = DRIVEN) NOTE:

- GPIO Controllers
- To float the bus, (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL =
FLOATED). 8. Setting for Bi-directional. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE = ENABLE) 9. Toggling GPIO. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_VALUE = updated value) 10. Starting Polling/Reading GPIO_<i>_INPUT_0<j>.GPIO_IN to read the GPIO input value. NOTE: This is applicable only for Bi-directional mode.
- When Interrupt is enabled, Interrupt is triggered based on GPIO input processing
selection. 11. Optional step:
- Polling GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0 for a specific Security Master (<jj>) when
proper Interrupt triggers are configured.
#### 9.5.4.4 GPIO Interrupts
##### 9.5.4.4.1 Enabling Interrupts for GPIO
Enabling the basic Interrupt functionality for a specific GPIO. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION = ENABLE)
##### 9.5.4.4.2 Interrupt Routing to Multiple VMs
Each GPIO Controller has eight physical Interrupts connected to the LIC. The LIC has the capability to route the individual Interrupts to any security domain or software entities via the its CPU's external Interrupts or via the advanced vGIC (Virtualization capable Generic Interrupt Controller). Based on the platform usage and use case requirements, software is required to identify the mapping of GPIO Pins to a Guest OS. For each of such Pins, Interrupt from the GPIO Controller managing that pin/port needs to be enabled for the Guest OS (all referred as VM) by
- Configuring the specific bit position in the given GPIO_<i>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
register to route the Interrupt event to one of the VMs.
- Enabling the corresponding GPIO Controller in the LIC to redirect to the specific Security
Master.

- GPIO Controllers
This ROUTE_MAPPING register, available for each GPIO Port by every GPIO Controller, is part of the common address space, so Hypervisor can configure it in a Virtualized environment. The ROUTE_MAPPING register is typically programmed during the Boot phase once for all the GPIO Controllers. As part of the SC7 recovery, it is programmed during SC7 exit for all GPIO Controllers excepting the AON GPIO Controller. During SC7 exit, the AON registers are not reprogrammed. When different values are programmed in this register in a toggle fashion, there may be glitches on the Interrupt depending on whether the GPIO is toggled during at the same time. For details of the LIC, refer to the Interrupt Controllers chapter in this TRM.
- GPIO Interrupts and Virtualization
In a system that supports virtualization, it is desirable to have a separate Interrupt input to the vGIC for each VM that controls one or more GPIOs. When separate GPIO Interrupts go to the vGIC for each VM, the Hypervisor can rely on the Interrupt information from the vGIC to schedule the correct VM. Based on the “Interrupt Routing Bitmap” maintained by the Hypervisor, the Hypervisor maps all the GPIO's belonging to a VM to one of the 8 available Interrupt lines, then routes this Interrupt line to the VM via vGIC. Here is the flow:
- Hypervisor receives the Interrupt from the GPIO Controller
1. Reads the Interrupt Status Register in vGIC. 2. Programs the vGIC to generate a virtual Interrupt for the Guest OS. 3. Schedules the Guest OS as needed.
- Guest OS
1. Reads the Interrupt Status in vGIC to determine the source of the Interrupt. 2. Reads the GPIO Controller to determine which GPIO Pin caused the Interrupt. 3. Calls the appropriate ISR. There are 8 physical Interrupts from every GPIO Controller with each such Interrupt directly assigned to the Guest. There is no need for Hypervisor to perform any sort of GPIO handling except for setting up the protection. However, when more Interrupts from a GPIO Controller are mapped to specific Security Masters like SCE/BPMP, and VMs are left with fewer Interrupts more than the number of VM's, the Hypervisor’s ISR needs to read the following registers GPIO_CTL<kk>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0. GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0. then based on the read-outs, inject the virtual IRQ to the Guest that needs attention. For details of the vGIC, refer to the vGIC chapter in this TRM.

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.4.5 Enabling Security Attributes for GPIO Registers
Please ask your NVIDIA representative for details.
#### 9.5.4.6 GPIOs in Loopback Mode
When the GPIO output is actively driven, software can immediately poll, i.e. Configure the GPIO Pin as Bi-directional. 1. Drive the output value to "0" or "1". 1. Read the corresponding GPIO IN register. 1. When the GPIO output is weak-pullup or weak-pull down, software cannot immediately read back the GPIO input pin state. This is because the GPIO input value propagation incurs an RC delay (charge/discharge), and it takes time to reflect the GPIO output value propagated as input value in GPIO IN register. This means that software must introduce a delay before reading the GPIO IN register. To be on the safe side, we consider worst values like R = 100 KOhm and C = 10 pF resulting in an RC delay of ~1 µs. The typical wait time needs to be 5 RC delays, hence 5 µs. Further, to accommodate all the PVT (Process, Voltage, Temperature) corner cases, software is recommended to impose a 20 µs delay in such loopback scenarios. For loopbacks to different GPIOs at the board level and considering trace delays, additional margins may need to be added to the typical delay. The proper steps to read the GPIO input is thus: Configure the Pin as GPIO Bi-directional. Set Driving output control selection to FLOATED. (Internal pullup or board-level pullup as per platform requirements and configuration). Wait for 20 µs. Read the corresponding GPIO IN register.
#### 9.5.4.7 Disabling Specific GPIO
When a GPIO Pin is removed from the GPIO group the following sequences need to be performed. The step to float the GPIO is explicitly added as part of the GPIO disabling sequence for full backward compatibility of hardware behavior. (GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0.GPIO_OUT_CONTROL = FLOATED). (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>.GPIO_ENABLE = DISABLE).

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.4.8 GPIO Programming Entities
All the registers common to a GPIO Controller are programmed by the Boot Loader in the normal system environment, and by the Hypervisor in the Virtualized system environment. Some of the registers like top-level security attribute are programmed by the Boot Loader in all the systems.
#### 9.5.4.9 Interrupt Handling Options and Guidelines
Few additional aspects with respect to GPIO Interrupt handling with Virtualization and Security protection:
- The GPIO Pin to Interrupt associated with a CPU is decoupled from the CPU that owns the
configuration control of GPIO Pin. This enables a wide variety of usage models, like some CPUs behaving only as owner for Interrupts but not for configuration, etc.
- No device (including an Interrupt controller) can be modified by more than one software
- Stack. Any other software stack that wants to use the device must send a message to the
holding software stack to act on its behalf.

