# 9.5.3 Registers

This section provides the high-level description of GPIO registers organization, configuration, and status. The configuration details are given for one instance of GPIO Pin, whereas the status details are given for one instance of GPIO Port.
#### 9.5.3.1 System Address Map (AMAP)
- From System Address Map point of view, a 4-KiB address space is reserved for each GPIO
Controller to support a maximum of eight GPIO Ports, each of which maps to a maximum of 8 GPIO
- Pins. Hence, each GPIO Controller maps up to 64 GPIO Pins, depending on the corresponding
physical pin/pad locations and various other floorplan considerations. This 4-KiB space is repeated for each GPIO Controller in a 64-KiB space for each of the following domains:
- Non-AON
- AON
- FSI
- In particular, there are
- Six GPIO Controllers (CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5) in the Non-AON domain,
- One GPIO Controller (AON) in the AON domain, and
Two GPIO Controllers (FSI_CTL0, FSI_CTL1) in the FSI domain. Further, each GPIO Controller's registers are in two categories, Configuration registers and Common registers.
- The Configuration registers are responsible for
- GPIO mode (input vs output) selection and control,
- Debouncing control, and
other features accessible by the Guest OS/VM. The Common Control registers, contrary to what its name may suggest, are privileged registers only accessible by Hypervisor (HV) or the equivalent, but not by the Guest OS/VM, to govern
- Virtualization settings
For Non-AON GPIO Controllers, the address space is physically aliased to support virtualization. Each of these GPIO Controllers groups is mapped in a 64-KiB address page partitioned into 4-KiB sub-pages for each of the individual GPIO Controllers in the group. The 64-KiB page is physically aliased eight times to support eight VM/Guest OS access. The Common registers are mapped in its own 64-KiB address page partitioned into 4-KiB sub-pages for each of the individual GPIO Controllers in the group.

- GPIO Controllers
The following diagrams illustrate the System Address Map organizations of the Non-AON, AON, and FSI GPIO Controllers.
**Figure 9.62 Non-AON GPIO Controllers AMAP Organization**

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.63 AON GPIO Controller AMAP Organization**
**Figure 9.64 FSI GPIO Controller AMAP Organization**
#### 9.5.3.2 Registers Details
The following tables summarize all the GPIO registers for Non-AON and AON GPIO Controllers, as well as FSI GPIO Controllers.

- GPIO Controllers
- Table 9.59 Non-AON and AON GPIO Registers Details
- GPIO Control Registers
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_INPUT_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0
- GPIO Common Control Registers
- GPIO_<ii>_VM_0<j>_0
- GPIO_CTL<kk>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_VM_0
- GPIO_<k>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- GPIO_<i>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- GPIO_<i>_SPARE_0
NOTE: <i> = A, B, C, D E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC, DD, EE, GG (Non-AON and AON GPIO Ports) <ii> = A, B, C, D E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG (non-AON GPIO Ports) <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7} (GPIO Pin within a GPIO Port) <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (Security Master) <jjj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (VM / Guest OS) <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON (non-AON and AON GPIO Controllers) <kk> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 (non-AON GPIO Controllers)

- GPIO Controllers
- Table 9.60 FSI GPIO Registers Details
- GPIO FSI Control Registers
- GPIO_<iii>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0
- GPIO FSI Common Control Registers
- GPIO_FSI<m>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0
- GPIO_<iii>_INT<jjj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0
- GPIO_FSI<m>_SPARE_0
NOTE: <iii> = S, T, W, U, V (FSI GPIO Ports) <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7} (GPIO Pin within a GPIO Port) <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (Security Master) <jjj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 (VM / Guest OS) <m> = 0, 1 (FSI) (FSI non-AON GPIO Controllers)
##### 9.5.3.2.1 Configuration/Status Registers
- This sub-section provides the description of GPIO Configuration and Status Registers. The
Configuration Registers details are given for one instance of the GPIO Pin, whereas the Status Registers details are given for one instance of the GPIO Port.
- Per-Pin Configuration Registers
This sub-section covers the GPIO Configuration registers for one instance of the GPIO Pin, with the Pin number within a GPIO Port denoted by "0<j>".

- GPIO Controllers
NOTE: There are maximally 8 GPIO Pins in one GPIO Port. And some GPIO Ports have less than 8 GPIO Pins. Hence, <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}.
- GPIO_<i>/<iii>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0,
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. This register, available for each GPIO Pin (<j>) in a GPIO Port (<i>, <iii>), configures the given GPIO Pin.
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- TIMESTAMPING_FUNCTIO
N
- This field allows the GPIO input change event to create a timestamp
event.
- When enabled based on the settings in TRIGGER_TYPE & TRIGGER LEVEL
time-stamp trigger is sent out to TSC.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.IN_OUT == IN). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- INTERRUPT_FUNCTION
- This field provides the Interrupt selection for the GPIO Input changes
based on trigger type (TRIGGER_TYPE) trigger polarity (TRIGGER LEVEL)
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE. 1 = ENABLE.
- When
((GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE) && (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.INTERRUPT_FUNCTION == 1)), the Interrupt Status is updated in the Interrupt Status Register (GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0) for all the VM's, based on the settings of
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE &
GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER LEVEL.

- GPIO Controllers
- Field
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
- DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION
This field provides the Debounce filter selection on the GPIO Input.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE). 0 = DISABLE (no Debounce filter). 1 = ENABLE.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_FUNCTION ==
- ENABLE),
the debouncing interval value is defined by (GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0.DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD).
- TRIGGER LEVEL
- This field selects the polarity of the GPIO Input trigger for the given
trigger type.
- It is effective only when
(GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == ENABLE).
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == NO
- TRIGGER),
this field is irrelevant.
- When (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_ CONFIG_0<j>_0.TRIGGER_TYPE == LEVEL),

