# 9.5.2 Functional Description

@{Key=9.5.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=#### 9.5.2.1 Basic GPIO Controller Structure
- The GPIO Controller manages groups of GPIO Pins for
- Input with the physical pin input available at the corresponding GPIO register (GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0) to be read by software.

- GPIO Controllers
- Output with software-written values in the corresponding GPIO register (GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0). where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. NOTE: For details of these GPIO Input and Output registers, refer to the Registers section below. The GPIO Controller at the GPIO Pin level has provisions to perform the following functions: Configuring the GPIO Pin for Input/Output direction.
- Sampling a GPIO Input Data to the corresponding register and Driving GPIO Output Data
from the corresponding register to a GPIO Pin. Generating Interrupts based on the programmed polarity levels and transitions. De-bouncing and Filtering of input signals.
- The following diagram shows the basic blocks in the GPIO
Controller.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.49 GPIO Controller Block Diagram**
NOTE: The TimeStamp (TS) Trigger is in the AON GPIO Controller only.
- The Error Collator (EC) of the AON GPIO Controller is outside the AON GPIO Controller, but
still in the Always ON power region. 1. 2.
##### 9.5.2.1.1 APB SLAVE Generator and Config/Status Registers
The APB Slave Generator interfaces with the Control BackBone (CBB) through the APB interface.
- Apart from the proper protocol interfacing and termination, this block also implements the
necessary Clock crossing structures. The Config/Status Register block which interfaces with the SoC via the APB bus through the APB Interface Generator, consists of all GPIO Controllers Configuration Registers and Status Registers listed as follows:
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INT<jj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,

- GPIO Controllers
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}, and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
- GPIO_<iii>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INT<jj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V, <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}, and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. NOTE: For details of these GPIO Input and Output registers, refer to the Registers section below.
##### 9.5.2.1.2 SCR and Virtualization Checker
The Virtualization checker validates the incoming APB transaction with respect to VM config attributes set up by Hypervisor, then accordingly permits or denies access to the specific register. Non-privileged Guest OS access violations are dropped with APB slave error.
**Figure 9.50 GPIO Virtualization Checker for GPIO_CTL<0/1/2/3/4/5>**

- GPIO Controllers
##### 9.5.2.1.3 GPIO Debounce Logic
The Debounce logic is a simple Glitch Filter with a filtering granularity of 1 msec. The Debounce logic receives a constant 1-msec pulse from the Timestamp System Counter (TSC), a toggle-based event to indicate 1-msec intervals. The pulse from the TSC is double synchronized and edge detected for reference filtering.
##### 9.5.2.1.4 GPIO Input and Level/Edge Detection
This block processes the GPIO inputs (from pads through PinMux logic) for edge/level detection, updates the Status Registers, and forwards the triggers to the Interrupt generation block & TS trigger block. The GPIO Pin input level is updated in the GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0 register for software access.
##### 9.5.2.1.5 Interrupt Generation and Status
- This block generates Interrupt triggers based on the output of the GPIO Input Level/Edge
Detection block. The generated Interrupt triggers are then routed to the LIC followed by generated Interrupt Status.
- The following diagram shows the consolidated view of GPIO Interrupt generation and Status
updates per Pin for each Security Master (NVG0 through NVG7) as well as Virtual Machine (VM1/ Guest OS0 through VM8/Guest OS7).

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.51 GPIO Controller Interrupt and Interrupt Status Scheme**
For details of the GPIO Interrupts, refer to the GPIO Interrupts section below.
##### 9.5.2.1.6 TS Trigger
The TS (TimeStamp) Trigger block generates triggers for the timestamping block, i.e., the Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE) block outside of the GPIO Controller based on the output of the GPIO Input & Level/Edge Detection block.
##### 9.5.2.1.7 GPIO Output Control and Value
This part of logic drives the GPIO output as programmed in the GPIO OUT register (GPIO_<i>/ <iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_<j>_0) by software. The GPIO Controller output propagates through the PinMux logic then to the physical pin/pad.
##### 9.5.2.1.8 GPIO Clock Gating
- The GPIO Controller implements the Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) scheme for power
optimization. In line with the per-pin configuration capabilities, the SLCG structures are realized such that the Config Registers logic Clock is gated except when Register access is active,

- GPIO Controllers
the per-pin GPIO logic Clock is gated except when the GPIO Pin is active in either Input or Output mode, i.e. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == 1). Both Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) structures, SLCG1 and SLCG2, can be bypassed with the
- GPIO_<k>/FSI<m>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0 register which is on the un-gated version of the
GPIO_CTL<kk>_CLK. In addition, the Parity and Error Collator (EC) registers-related logic is also on the un-gated version of the GPIO_CTL<kk>_CLK for the purpose of capturing possible Parity errors. NOTE: <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON, <m> = 0, 1, and <kk> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
**Figure 9.52 GPIO Controller Clock Gating Overview**
- Clock Gating by CAR during L2 Reset
Under L2 Reset, the CAR logic gates the Clock for Non-AON and FSI GPIO Controllers which have multiple Reset versions. This is done to avoid meta-stable issues in the GPIO logic that is not reset by the L2 Reset.

- GPIO Controllers
Such CAR logic is un-gated after L2 Reset by enabling the special GPIOs to hold the state prior to the L2 Reset. For details of CAR, refer to the Clock and Reset Controller (CAR) chapter in this TRM.
#### 9.5.2.2 GPIO TimeStamping Interface
The Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE) logic in Orin performs event timestamping based on the change in input trigger events and logs the Event ID along with the Global Timestamp in a FIFO. The module that stores the timestamping value is called Capture Slice. Multiple Capture slices are muxed/arbitrated into one Timestamping Slice via the APB. Triggering events based on GPIO input pin changes are forwarded to the GTE by the GPIO Controller to enable the timestamping mechanism. For details of the Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE), refer to the Timers chapter in this TRM. The timestamping provision is limited only to GPIOs handled by the AON GPIO Controller. Hence, use cases or system requirements that call for accurate time synchronization between Orin and a connected device, the connected device must be connected to Orin through an AON GPIO Pin to take advantage of the GTE-backed timestamping to achieve reliable hardware-based time synchronization.
- Timestamping of a GPIO Pin handled by Non-AON GPIO Controllers can be achieved by
timestamping the Interrupts generated form the GPIO Pin to the LIC. The following diagram shows the timestamping triggering structure in the AON GPIO Controller.
**Figure 9.53 TimeStamping Triggering Structure from AON GPIO**

- GPIO Controllers
- In Orin, there are 32 AON GPIO Pins. Their timestamp (TS) triggers together with other AON
clusters TS triggers are forwarded to the GTE and collected in the Common FIFO inside the GTE as shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 9.54 AON to GTE Connection Structure**
##### 9.5.2.2.1 GPIO AON Timestamping Usage
The AON cluster's main purpose is the handling of various sensor related triggers along with the Sensor Processing Engine (SPE). One such timestamping of sensor events is the measurement of pulse widths and identification of certain specific sequence event.
- The timestamp tick granularity is at 32 ns in AON time, with 20-bit count to support event
detection up to 33 msec.
#### 9.5.2.3 GPIO Clock and Reset Control
- Each GPIO Controller is independent and can operate out of the best possible Clock source
meeting its Clock policy constraints and close to its physical location. Following is the summary of high-level Clock requirements. APB Clock for register interface and GPIO Core Clock for GPIO Controller logic separated to facilitate transaction-based Clock gating. APB Clock and GPIO Core Clock completely asynchronous. No relationship between Clocks of different GPIO Controllers.
- AON GPIO Controller core Clock connected to APB Clock to minimize the number of Clocks in
AON cluster. One software Reset (bit) and software/driver entity for each GPIO Controller instance.

- GPIO Controllers
- Non-AON GPIO Controllers with L1 warm Reset to handle mixed-Reset cases. Controller
Clocks during L2 Reset. FSI GPIO Controller Clock limited to XTAL Clock source of 40 MHz.
##### 9.5.2.3.1 System Reset Mapping to GPIO Controllers
The GPIO Controllers can be subject to various Resets outlined as follows:
- L2 Cold Reset
- Covering AON GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, and Common registers. Out of these,
- Common registers are on the secure Reset version which does not have software Reset
provision. Register Parity and logic are on the same Reset as the register being protected.
- L1 Warm Reset
- Covering GPIO Controller/logic associated with CPU_PWR_REQ. L1 Warm Reset does not
have software Reset provision. Also, there is flush/soft Reset synchronous clear option for EC registers.
- L2 Warm Reset
Covering GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, Common registers, and EC registers/logic.
- Out of these, Common registers and EC registers/logic are on the secure Reset version
which does not have software Reset provision. Register Parity and logic are on the same Reset as the register being protected. Covering FSI GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, and Common registers. All the logic in on the secure Reset version which does not have software Reset provision. Register Parity and logic are on same Reset as the register being protected. Further, the following table shows the mapping of different System Resets to GPIO Controllers and logic in both AON and Non-AON clusters.
- Table 9.58 System Reset Mapping to GPIO Controller
- Remark
- GPIO
- Controller in
- AON Cluster
- GPIO Regs and
- Logic on
- CPU_PWR_REQ
- GPIO Controller
in Non-AON
- Cluster
- Associated
- Sources
- Reset
- Source
- Level
- Cold
- Chip Reset
(SYS_RST_N)
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Warm
- SC7 Wake Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- No
- AON GPIO Controller
must survive SC7 state. Hence, SC7
- Wake does not reset
it.
- Level 2
- All WDT Debug Reset
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- The AON GPIO
- Controller together
with all AON I/Os get reset in L2.

- GPIO Controllers
- Remark
- GPIO
- Controller in
- AON Cluster
- GPIO Regs and
- Logic on
- CPU_PWR_REQ
- GPIO Controller
in Non-AON
- Cluster
- Associated
- Sources
- Reset
- Source
- Level
- Level 1c
- Software Cold Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- GPIO pin
- CPU_PWR_REQ,
resets the I/O state only on Cold and Warm Resets in L1.
- CPU power pins in
- GPIO_CTL4 are out of
Reset at L1b.
- Level 1b
- All WDT POR Reset,
- HSM Internal System
- Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Level 1a
- Sensor Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Level 0
- External POR Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- GPIO pin
- CPU_PWR_REQ,
resets the I/O state only on Cold and Warm Resets in L0. NOTE: Yes - Controller/Logic is reset with indicated system Reset variant. No - Controller/Logic is not reset with indicated system Reset variant.
- GPIO Controller Logic on L1 Reset
- To ensure that the CPU power rail is not switched OFF during L2 Reset cycle and thereby
preserving the MCA state, the GPIO Pin CPU_PWR_REQ does not get reset during L2 Reset. Instead, only the I/O state gets reset on Cold and Warm Resets below L2 (i.e. L0/L1) Reset. In addition, the GPIO_CTL4 GPIO Controller is associated with CPU_PWR_REQ, thus requiring L1 Reset when Reset is needed. Similarly, to retain registers states through L2 Reset, the Non-AON GPIO Controller's Parity logic, Error Collator logic, and registers are also on L1 Reset.
#### 9.5.2.4 GPIO Interrupts
This section provides details of Interrupts and the Interrupt Status Registers.
##### 9.5.2.4.1 Interrupt Generation
Each GPIO input change can trigger an Interrupt, reflected in the Interrupt Status. Each Interrupt line has a simple route mapping indicating which GPIO Pin event is mapped to trigger the Interrupt line to the LIC as shown in the following diagram.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.55 Interrupt Generation per GPIO Controller**
##### 9.5.2.4.2 Non-AON GPIO Interrupts Connectivity
Each Non-AON GPIO Controller generates 8 Interrupts and they are directly connected to the LIC at the top level. This ensures that software entities serving the Interrupt know which GPIO Controller has generated the Interrupt by reading the vector status from the LIC. The Interrupt triggers for multiple Pins are combined and channeled to the LIC from each of the GPIO Controllers. Additional latency in Interrupt handling is expected while servicing GPIO Interrupts as this involves multiple MMIO Reads. The Interrupt handler needs to read the GPIO Interrupt Status Registers to figure out the exact GPIO Pin source that triggered the Interrupt. The following diagram shows how the Interrupts are routed to the LIC.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.56 Non-AON GPIO Controllers Interrupts Generation and Connection to LIC**
##### 9.5.2.4.3 AON GPIO Interrupts Connectivity
The AON GPIO Controller also generates eight Interrupt outputs, not all of which are routed to the
- LIC though. Specifically,
two Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[1:0]) are connected as wake event to facilitate GPIO wake from
- SC7,
two other Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[3:2]) are connected to AON VIC to trigger Interrupts to
- SPE, and
remaining four Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[7:4]) are routed to the LIC through a level shifter in the VDD_SOC power domain.
- The AON GPIO Controller does not support Virtualization. Hence, all features related VM
configuration and outputs for the Guest OS are unused. The following diagram shows the breakdown of AON GPIO Controller Interrupt routing.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.57 AON GPIO Controller Interrupt Generation and Connection to LIC**
##### 9.5.2.4.4 Non-AON GPIO Controller Interrupts in the Multi-CPU and Virtualized
- Environment
In Orin, there are multiple CPUs across sub-systems referred to as Security Masters. In the Context of this TRM, Security Master, Security Domain, and Security Group all refer to one such CPU with a set of security privileges in the system. Depending on the CPU’s capability and platform usage models, a Security Master can: run a rich OS like Linux/Android, be an instance of Virtual Machine (also referred to as Guest OS), where each Virtual Machine forms a Security Domain in software, and run firmware components on Cortex-R5 sub-systems, also known as clusters. A GPIO Pin can be owned by any of the aforementioned software entities of a Security Group. Hence, each GPIO Controller is designed to generate Interrupts for each independent software entity, i.e., one Interrupt per VM. This, in turn, leads to each Interrupt being routed to one of the following types of software stacks:
- CPU Drivers
- CPU Guest OSs
- CPU Trust Zone (TZ, a specialized VM)
- Firmware for any embedded Falcon or Cortex-R5, as in BPMP, SPE, SCE, and APE, with an
external Interrupt from the LIC.
- To support the virtualization requirements, the Non-AON GPIO Controller, in addition, also
maintains different sets of Status Registers, detailing the Interrupt Status per Pin for every

- GPIO Controllers
security domain which is readable by the privileged Security Master, as shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 9.58 Interrupt Status per Security Master**
There is also abstracted Interrupt Status for Virtualization requirements that is one Interrupt Status per Guest OS as shown in the following diagram.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.59 VM Interrupt Status Register per Non-AON GPIO Controller**
#### 9.5.2.5 AON GPIO Controller
The AON subsystem controlled by the SPE has around 20+ GPIO Pins spread in three pin groups, namely AO, AO_HV, and SYS, and controlled by one AON GPIO Controller connected to the local APB bridge in the AON cluster. To ensure that these GPIO Pins are controlled during SC7, all the control and status for these GPIO Pins are maintained as part of the AON cluster, not in the SoC domain. Further, the AON GPIO Controller is not power-gated. The AON GPIO controller has its own separate 64-KiB page to facilitate a flexible usage model during SC7 and run time.

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.2.6 APB Slave Error support
The following register access errors are handled by the GPIO Controller and reported as APB Slave error on the APB bus. The APB Master has provision to log the details of violating transfers for diagnosis purpose. Address Hole Errors. Virtualization access violations.
- To facilitate first-level debugging the logic generates
0xDEAD_1001 in case of address hole Writes or Reads, 0xDEAD_1007 in case of Virtualization access violations, The following diagram shows the high-level structure of this block.
**Figure 9.60 GPIO APB Slave Error Generation**
#### 9.5.2.7 Virtualization
- With the presence of Virtualization, the address translation
- Guest (VA) → Intermediate (VA) → Host (PA)
happens in two phases as illustrated below. Page tables for Guest (VA) → Intermediate (VA) maintained by the Guest OS. Page tables for Intermediate (VA) → Host (PA) maintained by the Hypervisor. NOTE:

- GPIO Controllers
- VA: Virtual address
- PA: Physical Address
Under virtualization, the address space of the registers per GPIO Controller is replicated along with table-based mapping.
- Physically aliasing the GPIO/PinMux address space corresponding to the eight Guest OS's as
supported, with Hypervisor mapping same resources in different physical addresses for the different Guest OS.
- Mapping table/registers fully controlled by Hypervisor to configure each GPIO/PinMux
register to set Guest OS's access privileges. CBB NOC decoding physically aliased address space to same physical block, GPIO Controller.
- GPIO Controller comparing register access to decide the Guest OS's access right of the
register based on Virtualization mapping register settings as explained in the SCR and Virtualization Checker section.
**Figure 9.61 Virtualization Provisioning for GPIOs**
##### 9.5.2.7.1 Virtualization of AON and FSI GPIO Controller
The AON GPIOs are typically owned by the Sensor Processing Engine (SPE) or a single Guest OS, which does not require Virtualization support. The AUTOSAR version targeted in the FSI cluster does not support virtualization and therefore GPIO virtualization is not required. In summary, virtualization provision is not supported for the AON GPIO Controller, nor for the FSI GPIO Controllers.

- GPIO Controllers}(@{Key=9.5.2; Title=Functional Description; Body=#### 9.5.2.1 Basic GPIO Controller Structure
- The GPIO Controller manages groups of GPIO Pins for
- Input with the physical pin input available at the corresponding GPIO register (GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0) to be read by software.

- GPIO Controllers
- Output with software-written values in the corresponding GPIO register (GPIO_<i>/
<iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_0<j>_0). where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<iii> = S, T, W, U, V, and <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}. NOTE: For details of these GPIO Input and Output registers, refer to the Registers section below. The GPIO Controller at the GPIO Pin level has provisions to perform the following functions: Configuring the GPIO Pin for Input/Output direction.
- Sampling a GPIO Input Data to the corresponding register and Driving GPIO Output Data
from the corresponding register to a GPIO Pin. Generating Interrupts based on the programmed polarity levels and transitions. De-bouncing and Filtering of input signals.
- The following diagram shows the basic blocks in the GPIO
Controller.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.49 GPIO Controller Block Diagram**
NOTE: The TimeStamp (TS) Trigger is in the AON GPIO Controller only.
- The Error Collator (EC) of the AON GPIO Controller is outside the AON GPIO Controller, but
still in the Always ON power region. 1. 2.
##### 9.5.2.1.1 APB SLAVE Generator and Config/Status Registers
The APB Slave Generator interfaces with the Control BackBone (CBB) through the APB interface.
- Apart from the proper protocol interfacing and termination, this block also implements the
necessary Clock crossing structures. The Config/Status Register block which interfaces with the SoC via the APB bus through the APB Interface Generator, consists of all GPIO Controllers Configuration Registers and Status Registers listed as follows:
- GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
- GPIO_<i>_INT<jj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,

- GPIO Controllers
where <i> = A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, X, Y, Z, AA, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, BB, CC,
- DD, EE, GG,
<j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}, and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
- GPIO_<iii>_ENABLE_CONFIG_0<j>_0
- GPIO_<iii>_DEBOUNCE_THRESHOLD_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_OUTPUT_CONTROL_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_CLEAR_0<j>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INTERRUPT_STATUS_G<jj>_0,
- GPIO_<iii>_INT<jj>_ROUTE_MAPPING_0,
where <iii> = S, T, W, U, V, <j> ∈ {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7}, and <jj> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. NOTE: For details of these GPIO Input and Output registers, refer to the Registers section below.
##### 9.5.2.1.2 SCR and Virtualization Checker
The Virtualization checker validates the incoming APB transaction with respect to VM config attributes set up by Hypervisor, then accordingly permits or denies access to the specific register. Non-privileged Guest OS access violations are dropped with APB slave error.
**Figure 9.50 GPIO Virtualization Checker for GPIO_CTL<0/1/2/3/4/5>**

- GPIO Controllers
##### 9.5.2.1.3 GPIO Debounce Logic
The Debounce logic is a simple Glitch Filter with a filtering granularity of 1 msec. The Debounce logic receives a constant 1-msec pulse from the Timestamp System Counter (TSC), a toggle-based event to indicate 1-msec intervals. The pulse from the TSC is double synchronized and edge detected for reference filtering.
##### 9.5.2.1.4 GPIO Input and Level/Edge Detection
This block processes the GPIO inputs (from pads through PinMux logic) for edge/level detection, updates the Status Registers, and forwards the triggers to the Interrupt generation block & TS trigger block. The GPIO Pin input level is updated in the GPIO_<i>/<iii>_INPUT_0<j>_0 register for software access.
##### 9.5.2.1.5 Interrupt Generation and Status
- This block generates Interrupt triggers based on the output of the GPIO Input Level/Edge
Detection block. The generated Interrupt triggers are then routed to the LIC followed by generated Interrupt Status.
- The following diagram shows the consolidated view of GPIO Interrupt generation and Status
updates per Pin for each Security Master (NVG0 through NVG7) as well as Virtual Machine (VM1/ Guest OS0 through VM8/Guest OS7).

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.51 GPIO Controller Interrupt and Interrupt Status Scheme**
For details of the GPIO Interrupts, refer to the GPIO Interrupts section below.
##### 9.5.2.1.6 TS Trigger
The TS (TimeStamp) Trigger block generates triggers for the timestamping block, i.e., the Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE) block outside of the GPIO Controller based on the output of the GPIO Input & Level/Edge Detection block.
##### 9.5.2.1.7 GPIO Output Control and Value
This part of logic drives the GPIO output as programmed in the GPIO OUT register (GPIO_<i>/ <iii>_OUTPUT_VALUE_<j>_0) by software. The GPIO Controller output propagates through the PinMux logic then to the physical pin/pad.
##### 9.5.2.1.8 GPIO Clock Gating
- The GPIO Controller implements the Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) scheme for power
optimization. In line with the per-pin configuration capabilities, the SLCG structures are realized such that the Config Registers logic Clock is gated except when Register access is active,

- GPIO Controllers
the per-pin GPIO logic Clock is gated except when the GPIO Pin is active in either Input or Output mode, i.e. (GPIO_<i>_ENABLE_CONFIG_<j>_0.GPIO_ENABLE == 1). Both Second Level Clock Gating (SLCG) structures, SLCG1 and SLCG2, can be bypassed with the
- GPIO_<k>/FSI<m>_ICG_EN_OVERRIDE_0 register which is on the un-gated version of the
GPIO_CTL<kk>_CLK. In addition, the Parity and Error Collator (EC) registers-related logic is also on the un-gated version of the GPIO_CTL<kk>_CLK for the purpose of capturing possible Parity errors. NOTE: <k> = CTL0, CTL1, CTL2, CTL3, CTL4, CTL5, AON, <m> = 0, 1, and <kk> = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
**Figure 9.52 GPIO Controller Clock Gating Overview**
- Clock Gating by CAR during L2 Reset
Under L2 Reset, the CAR logic gates the Clock for Non-AON and FSI GPIO Controllers which have multiple Reset versions. This is done to avoid meta-stable issues in the GPIO logic that is not reset by the L2 Reset.

- GPIO Controllers
Such CAR logic is un-gated after L2 Reset by enabling the special GPIOs to hold the state prior to the L2 Reset. For details of CAR, refer to the Clock and Reset Controller (CAR) chapter in this TRM.
#### 9.5.2.2 GPIO TimeStamping Interface
The Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE) logic in Orin performs event timestamping based on the change in input trigger events and logs the Event ID along with the Global Timestamp in a FIFO. The module that stores the timestamping value is called Capture Slice. Multiple Capture slices are muxed/arbitrated into one Timestamping Slice via the APB. Triggering events based on GPIO input pin changes are forwarded to the GTE by the GPIO Controller to enable the timestamping mechanism. For details of the Generic Timestamping Engine (GTE), refer to the Timers chapter in this TRM. The timestamping provision is limited only to GPIOs handled by the AON GPIO Controller. Hence, use cases or system requirements that call for accurate time synchronization between Orin and a connected device, the connected device must be connected to Orin through an AON GPIO Pin to take advantage of the GTE-backed timestamping to achieve reliable hardware-based time synchronization.
- Timestamping of a GPIO Pin handled by Non-AON GPIO Controllers can be achieved by
timestamping the Interrupts generated form the GPIO Pin to the LIC. The following diagram shows the timestamping triggering structure in the AON GPIO Controller.
**Figure 9.53 TimeStamping Triggering Structure from AON GPIO**

- GPIO Controllers
- In Orin, there are 32 AON GPIO Pins. Their timestamp (TS) triggers together with other AON
clusters TS triggers are forwarded to the GTE and collected in the Common FIFO inside the GTE as shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 9.54 AON to GTE Connection Structure**
##### 9.5.2.2.1 GPIO AON Timestamping Usage
The AON cluster's main purpose is the handling of various sensor related triggers along with the Sensor Processing Engine (SPE). One such timestamping of sensor events is the measurement of pulse widths and identification of certain specific sequence event.
- The timestamp tick granularity is at 32 ns in AON time, with 20-bit count to support event
detection up to 33 msec.
#### 9.5.2.3 GPIO Clock and Reset Control
- Each GPIO Controller is independent and can operate out of the best possible Clock source
meeting its Clock policy constraints and close to its physical location. Following is the summary of high-level Clock requirements. APB Clock for register interface and GPIO Core Clock for GPIO Controller logic separated to facilitate transaction-based Clock gating. APB Clock and GPIO Core Clock completely asynchronous. No relationship between Clocks of different GPIO Controllers.
- AON GPIO Controller core Clock connected to APB Clock to minimize the number of Clocks in
AON cluster. One software Reset (bit) and software/driver entity for each GPIO Controller instance.

- GPIO Controllers
- Non-AON GPIO Controllers with L1 warm Reset to handle mixed-Reset cases. Controller
Clocks during L2 Reset. FSI GPIO Controller Clock limited to XTAL Clock source of 40 MHz.
##### 9.5.2.3.1 System Reset Mapping to GPIO Controllers
The GPIO Controllers can be subject to various Resets outlined as follows:
- L2 Cold Reset
- Covering AON GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, and Common registers. Out of these,
- Common registers are on the secure Reset version which does not have software Reset
provision. Register Parity and logic are on the same Reset as the register being protected.
- L1 Warm Reset
- Covering GPIO Controller/logic associated with CPU_PWR_REQ. L1 Warm Reset does not
have software Reset provision. Also, there is flush/soft Reset synchronous clear option for EC registers.
- L2 Warm Reset
Covering GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, Common registers, and EC registers/logic.
- Out of these, Common registers and EC registers/logic are on the secure Reset version
which does not have software Reset provision. Register Parity and logic are on the same Reset as the register being protected. Covering FSI GPIO Controller logic, Config registers, and Common registers. All the logic in on the secure Reset version which does not have software Reset provision. Register Parity and logic are on same Reset as the register being protected. Further, the following table shows the mapping of different System Resets to GPIO Controllers and logic in both AON and Non-AON clusters.
- Table 9.58 System Reset Mapping to GPIO Controller
- Remark
- GPIO
- Controller in
- AON Cluster
- GPIO Regs and
- Logic on
- CPU_PWR_REQ
- GPIO Controller
in Non-AON
- Cluster
- Associated
- Sources
- Reset
- Source
- Level
- Cold
- Chip Reset
(SYS_RST_N)
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Warm
- SC7 Wake Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- No
- AON GPIO Controller
must survive SC7 state. Hence, SC7
- Wake does not reset
it.
- Level 2
- All WDT Debug Reset
- Yes
- No
- Yes
- The AON GPIO
- Controller together
with all AON I/Os get reset in L2.

- GPIO Controllers
- Remark
- GPIO
- Controller in
- AON Cluster
- GPIO Regs and
- Logic on
- CPU_PWR_REQ
- GPIO Controller
in Non-AON
- Cluster
- Associated
- Sources
- Reset
- Source
- Level
- Level 1c
- Software Cold Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- GPIO pin
- CPU_PWR_REQ,
resets the I/O state only on Cold and Warm Resets in L1.
- CPU power pins in
- GPIO_CTL4 are out of
Reset at L1b.
- Level 1b
- All WDT POR Reset,
- HSM Internal System
- Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Level 1a
- Sensor Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- Level 0
- External POR Reset
- Yes
- Yes
- Yes
- GPIO pin
- CPU_PWR_REQ,
resets the I/O state only on Cold and Warm Resets in L0. NOTE: Yes - Controller/Logic is reset with indicated system Reset variant. No - Controller/Logic is not reset with indicated system Reset variant.
- GPIO Controller Logic on L1 Reset
- To ensure that the CPU power rail is not switched OFF during L2 Reset cycle and thereby
preserving the MCA state, the GPIO Pin CPU_PWR_REQ does not get reset during L2 Reset. Instead, only the I/O state gets reset on Cold and Warm Resets below L2 (i.e. L0/L1) Reset. In addition, the GPIO_CTL4 GPIO Controller is associated with CPU_PWR_REQ, thus requiring L1 Reset when Reset is needed. Similarly, to retain registers states through L2 Reset, the Non-AON GPIO Controller's Parity logic, Error Collator logic, and registers are also on L1 Reset.
#### 9.5.2.4 GPIO Interrupts
This section provides details of Interrupts and the Interrupt Status Registers.
##### 9.5.2.4.1 Interrupt Generation
Each GPIO input change can trigger an Interrupt, reflected in the Interrupt Status. Each Interrupt line has a simple route mapping indicating which GPIO Pin event is mapped to trigger the Interrupt line to the LIC as shown in the following diagram.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.55 Interrupt Generation per GPIO Controller**
##### 9.5.2.4.2 Non-AON GPIO Interrupts Connectivity
Each Non-AON GPIO Controller generates 8 Interrupts and they are directly connected to the LIC at the top level. This ensures that software entities serving the Interrupt know which GPIO Controller has generated the Interrupt by reading the vector status from the LIC. The Interrupt triggers for multiple Pins are combined and channeled to the LIC from each of the GPIO Controllers. Additional latency in Interrupt handling is expected while servicing GPIO Interrupts as this involves multiple MMIO Reads. The Interrupt handler needs to read the GPIO Interrupt Status Registers to figure out the exact GPIO Pin source that triggered the Interrupt. The following diagram shows how the Interrupts are routed to the LIC.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.56 Non-AON GPIO Controllers Interrupts Generation and Connection to LIC**
##### 9.5.2.4.3 AON GPIO Interrupts Connectivity
The AON GPIO Controller also generates eight Interrupt outputs, not all of which are routed to the
- LIC though. Specifically,
two Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[1:0]) are connected as wake event to facilitate GPIO wake from
- SC7,
two other Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[3:2]) are connected to AON VIC to trigger Interrupts to
- SPE, and
remaining four Interrupts (aon_gpio_int[7:4]) are routed to the LIC through a level shifter in the VDD_SOC power domain.
- The AON GPIO Controller does not support Virtualization. Hence, all features related VM
configuration and outputs for the Guest OS are unused. The following diagram shows the breakdown of AON GPIO Controller Interrupt routing.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.57 AON GPIO Controller Interrupt Generation and Connection to LIC**
##### 9.5.2.4.4 Non-AON GPIO Controller Interrupts in the Multi-CPU and Virtualized
- Environment
In Orin, there are multiple CPUs across sub-systems referred to as Security Masters. In the Context of this TRM, Security Master, Security Domain, and Security Group all refer to one such CPU with a set of security privileges in the system. Depending on the CPU’s capability and platform usage models, a Security Master can: run a rich OS like Linux/Android, be an instance of Virtual Machine (also referred to as Guest OS), where each Virtual Machine forms a Security Domain in software, and run firmware components on Cortex-R5 sub-systems, also known as clusters. A GPIO Pin can be owned by any of the aforementioned software entities of a Security Group. Hence, each GPIO Controller is designed to generate Interrupts for each independent software entity, i.e., one Interrupt per VM. This, in turn, leads to each Interrupt being routed to one of the following types of software stacks:
- CPU Drivers
- CPU Guest OSs
- CPU Trust Zone (TZ, a specialized VM)
- Firmware for any embedded Falcon or Cortex-R5, as in BPMP, SPE, SCE, and APE, with an
external Interrupt from the LIC.
- To support the virtualization requirements, the Non-AON GPIO Controller, in addition, also
maintains different sets of Status Registers, detailing the Interrupt Status per Pin for every

- GPIO Controllers
security domain which is readable by the privileged Security Master, as shown in the following diagram.
**Figure 9.58 Interrupt Status per Security Master**
There is also abstracted Interrupt Status for Virtualization requirements that is one Interrupt Status per Guest OS as shown in the following diagram.

- GPIO Controllers
**Figure 9.59 VM Interrupt Status Register per Non-AON GPIO Controller**
#### 9.5.2.5 AON GPIO Controller
The AON subsystem controlled by the SPE has around 20+ GPIO Pins spread in three pin groups, namely AO, AO_HV, and SYS, and controlled by one AON GPIO Controller connected to the local APB bridge in the AON cluster. To ensure that these GPIO Pins are controlled during SC7, all the control and status for these GPIO Pins are maintained as part of the AON cluster, not in the SoC domain. Further, the AON GPIO Controller is not power-gated. The AON GPIO controller has its own separate 64-KiB page to facilitate a flexible usage model during SC7 and run time.

- GPIO Controllers
#### 9.5.2.6 APB Slave Error support
The following register access errors are handled by the GPIO Controller and reported as APB Slave error on the APB bus. The APB Master has provision to log the details of violating transfers for diagnosis purpose. Address Hole Errors. Virtualization access violations.
- To facilitate first-level debugging the logic generates
0xDEAD_1001 in case of address hole Writes or Reads, 0xDEAD_1007 in case of Virtualization access violations, The following diagram shows the high-level structure of this block.
**Figure 9.60 GPIO APB Slave Error Generation**
#### 9.5.2.7 Virtualization
- With the presence of Virtualization, the address translation
- Guest (VA) → Intermediate (VA) → Host (PA)
happens in two phases as illustrated below. Page tables for Guest (VA) → Intermediate (VA) maintained by the Guest OS. Page tables for Intermediate (VA) → Host (PA) maintained by the Hypervisor. NOTE:

- GPIO Controllers
- VA: Virtual address
- PA: Physical Address
Under virtualization, the address space of the registers per GPIO Controller is replicated along with table-based mapping.
- Physically aliasing the GPIO/PinMux address space corresponding to the eight Guest OS's as
supported, with Hypervisor mapping same resources in different physical addresses for the different Guest OS.
- Mapping table/registers fully controlled by Hypervisor to configure each GPIO/PinMux
register to set Guest OS's access privileges. CBB NOC decoding physically aliased address space to same physical block, GPIO Controller.
- GPIO Controller comparing register access to decide the Guest OS's access right of the
register based on Virtualization mapping register settings as explained in the SCR and Virtualization Checker section.
**Figure 9.61 Virtualization Provisioning for GPIOs**
##### 9.5.2.7.1 Virtualization of AON and FSI GPIO Controller
The AON GPIOs are typically owned by the Sensor Processing Engine (SPE) or a single Guest OS, which does not require Virtualization support. The AUTOSAR version targeted in the FSI cluster does not support virtualization and therefore GPIO virtualization is not required. In summary, virtualization provision is not supported for the AON GPIO Controller, nor for the FSI GPIO Controllers.

- GPIO Controllers}.Body)
