# 9.6.2 Functional Description

- The ACTMON hardware accumulates selected activity indicators over a programmable period
known as the sample period. The ACTMON uses the accumulated activity value in two ways:

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- First, it compares the accumulated activity count with two software-programmable
thresholds (one high and one low). If the monitored activity falls outside the thresholds, ACTMON hardware generates an Interrupt to send to the ACTMON driver.
- Secondly, ACTMON feeds the accumulated activity count to an IIR filter to compute an
- Exponentially Weighted Moving Average (EWMA) of the activity count to effectively measure
the "average load" of the monitored unit.
- The ACTMON hardware maintains a second pair of programmable thresholds to use as the upper
and lower boundary of the EWMA. If this moving average changes by the software-programmed amount (threshold), ACTMON hardware generates an Interrupt to send to the ACTMON driver.
**Figure 9.65 ACTMON Hardware Diagram**
- The diagram above illustrates the Orin ACTMON hardware. The ACTMON Wrapper is a software-
defined encompassment of multiple ACTMON modules/Instances (up to 8). Each ACTMON module in an ACTMON Wrapper with dedicated hardware and registers is assigned to monitor just one Activity indicator. The Global Control Registers for the sample period and Interrupt enable/status are common for all ACTMON Modules in an ACTMON Wrapper.
- Referring to the ACTMON Block Diagram below, the activity input is counted by the Activity
counter, ACTMON_XXX Monitor Counter register, that is reset at the end of each sample period. Software configuration allows Interrupt generation for the condition of counter overflow or at the end of each sample period. This cumulative counter, however, keeps running, even after a sample period ends, until it rolls over. Software has the option to generate an Interrupt when it rolls over for the first time (CARRY) and the second time (OVERFLOW).

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
At the end of a sample period, the sample count value is sent to a first order IIR filter to provide an Exponentially Weighted Moving Average statistics. Software can also be configured to generate an Interrupt whenever a set of programmable thresholds are breached. All the Interrupts are finally routed to one Interrupt line. Software reads the Interrupt status registers to know the cause of Interrupt. In addition, software has the option to mask (enable/ disable) Interrupts.
**Figure 9.66 ACTMON Block Diagram**
The figure below shows the high-level connectivity interface for the Central ACTMON unit in the
- BPMP cluster. (Refer to the BPMP chapter of this TRM for more details.)
- NV_ACTMON_MC is the ACTMON Wrapper encompasses seven ACTMON Instances. This along with
other glue logic like APB Slave and Reset Synchronizer constitutes the Central ACTMON. The Activity signals from Memory Controllers (MC) are all 16 bits wide (1 bit from each of the 16 MC channels) but each ACTMON Instance can only take a “1” bit activity signal as input. Thus, the NV_ACTMON_MC Wrapper needs to take care of activity aggregation (not shown in the diagram below). See Activity Aggregation below.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
**Figure 9.67 Central ACTMON Connection**
The table below summarizes the activities monitored in Orin.
- Table 9.61 Activity Monitors (ACTMONs)
- Module
- Central ACTMON Counter Description (Counter Width = 32 Bits)
- MC-ALL ACTMON
- Number of Memory Controller (MC) clock cycles when any (including CCPLEX) memory access
activity is detected. The MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- MC-CPU ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from CCPLEX is detected. MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- TSA_A ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_A is detected. MC toggles a signal to the ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- TSA_B ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_B is detected. MC toggles a signal to the ACTMON every 'W' cycles.

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
- Module
- Central ACTMON Counter Description (Counter Width = 32 Bits)
- TSA_C ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_C is detected. MC toggles a signal to the ACTMON every 'W' cycles.
- DUAL-MCCIF-TSA
- ACTMON
- Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from DUAL-MCCIF-TSA clients is
detected. MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every ‘W’ cycles.
- TSA_RD ACTMON
Number of MC clock cycles when any memory access activity from TSA_RD clients is detected. MC toggles a signal to ACTMON every ‘W’ cycles. The table above assumes that the following units either run at a fixed frequency or have their own frequency management based on a fixed workload, so they do not need ACTMON support.
- VI/CSI (fixed)
- Display (based on workload; no monitors needed)
- Host (fixed)
- ISP (based on workload)
- NVENC (based on input buffer)
- SEC (fixed frequency)
- USB3 – Falcon (based on workload)
#### 9.6.2.1 Location and Register Access
Unit-ACTMON registers are in the parent device’s address space. Hence, they should be accessed through the parent device’s MMIO path.
- Table 9.62 Unit ACTMON Registers
- Unit-ACTMON
- Location
- Register Access
- NVENC
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- NVDEC
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- NVJPG
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- NVJPG1
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- VIC
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- OFA
- Host Controller
- Through Host Controller
- ADSP
- APE
- Through APE NIC's (ACONNECT) APB interface
- AON/SCE/BPMP/DCE/RCE
subsystem
- PM module within Cortex-R5
subsystem
- Through the PM module register space
- PVA
- ACTMON module inside the PVA
cluster
- PVA Internal control NoC

- Activity Monitor (ACTMON)
##### 9.6.2.1.1 Interrupts
- Table 9.63 Interrupt Interface
- Port Name
I/O
- Width
- Description
actmon_intr_set
- Out
- This signal tells the parent that ACTMON Interrupt need
to be set. It keeps asserted until software clears the status in ACTMON. (Parent refers to the unit inside which the ACTMON is instantiated.) Each Unit ACTMON has a single Interrupt status bit in the parent module which is set by this signal and cleared by software.
##### 9.6.2.1.2 Interrupt Handling
The Interrupts raised by all ACTMON Instances within the Wrapper are aggregated and sent to the parent device with one Interrupt status bit for the Wrapper. The parent device then sends the aggregated Interrupt to the software.
- Step 1: Host Controller Interrupt triggered
Step 2: Software reads Host Controller Interrupt status register and decides which activity monitor triggers Interrupt.
- Step 3: Software reads each ACTMON Interrupt status to decide which source triggered the
Interrupt.
- Step 4: Software clears the corresponding ACTMON and Host Controller Interrupt status bit
and takes necessary actions.
#### 9.6.2.2 Central ACTMON Module
The central ACTMON module comprises several central ACTMON Instances.
- Table 9.64 Clock Source for Activity Monitors
- ACTMON
- Refclk Source
- Frequency
- Central ACTMON
- Oscillator

