# 9.7.2 Functional Description

- The SoC implements an IP block that encapsulates the multiple hardware synchronization
primitives, and is accessed via an APB bus.

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
**Figure 9.70 Decomposition of the Hardware Synchronization Primitive**
The HSP module is instantiated multiple times in Orin, together with the number of instances of the different primitives inside each instance. In the following table: nSM is the number of Shared Mailboxes nAS is the number of Arbitrated Semaphores nSS is the number of Shared Semaphores nDB is the number of Doorbells nSI is the number of Shared Interrupts (see below)
- Red shows which HSPs are redundant
- Type shows the two possible HSP configurations

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
- Table 9.65 HSP Module Instantiation
- Instance
nSM nAS nSS nDB nSI
- Red
- Type
- Description
- TOP0
- Yes
- TOP0 instance additionally has
- Arbitrated Semaphores and
- Doorbells with each doorbell having
an identified destination.
- TOP1
- Yes
- Consists a total of eight
bidirectional mailboxes at TOP, same as R5 HSP to limit verification effort.
- TOP2
- Yes
- Same as TOP1 Flavor and is mainly
used for FSI<->CCPLEX communication.
- BPMP
- Yes
- All Cortex-R5 clusters, the A9
cluster, FSI Cluster, TOP1, and TOP2 instances use a similarly configured HSP.
- AON
- SCE
- Yes
- SCE_HSP1
- Yes
- SCE_HSP2
- Yes
- APE
- RCE
- Yes
- RCE HSP1
- Yes
- RCE HSP2
- Yes
- PVA0
- DCE
- Yes
- DCE HSP1
- Yes
- DCE HSP2
- Yes
- FSI
- Yes
The Shared Mailboxes, Arbitrated Semaphores, and Shared Semaphores are always replicated per security level, and each HSP supports two different security levels (TrustZone® or non-TrustZone), so that nSM, nAS, and nSS are always a multiple of two to allow differentiation between two security levels. The doorbell logic is only duplicated for the CPU where one doorbell can be used to ping the TrustZone secure software without interference from TrustZone non-secure software or exposing any information to the TrustZone non-secure software.
- Note: RCE_HSP1, RCE_HSP2, DCE_HSP1, and DCE_HSP2 instances exist to maintain common
design for SCE, RCE and DCE. Doorbells are system resources, instantiated once into a top level HSP. Doorbell interrupts are sent to specific targets:

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
- Two doorbells connected to the LIC, and from there to the CCPLEX GIC, are normally mapped
to TrustZone secure and non-secure. (The CCPLEX CPU doorbell signals could be made directly visible to the CCPMU, this is not done in Orin.)
- One doorbell directly connected to the CCPMU inside CCPLEX (the MCE used to
communicate with BPMP). Five doorbells for AON, BPMP, SCE, DCE, and RCE R5 clusters. Each doorbell connected to VIC inside a Cortex-R5 cluster. One doorbell connected to the PSC interrupt controller.
#### 9.7.2.1 Sub-Unit Descriptions
The HSP module has these main blocks:
- APB termination
- Common registers and interrupt crossbar
- Shared mailboxes
- Shared semaphores
- Arbitrated semaphores
- Doorbells
##### 9.7.2.1.1 APB Termination
The APB termination logic is a slave APB that transforms incoming APB transactions into local register read and write operations.
##### 9.7.2.1.2 Common Registers and Interrupt Crossbar
The common registers and interrupt crossbar block contains the interrupt routing logic that takes the set of local interrupts and generates a set of shared interrupts, connected to an interrupt controller associated with the instance: LIC for TOP0 and TOP1 HSP. LIC, FSI GIC, FSI AVIC, and FSI HSM for TOP2_HSP. One shared interrupt to the local AVIC and four shared interrupts to LIC for AON, SCE, RCE, DCE, and PVA HSP instances. Local AVIC, FSI GIC, FSI HSM for SCE_HSP1 and SCE_HSP2 instances. Local AVIC for RCE_HSP1, RCE_HSP2, DCE_HSP1, and DCE_HSP2 instances. Local GIC and AVIC for FSI HSP instance. The LIC and local VIC for HSP instantiated in BPMP. The A9 GIC for HSP instantiated inside the APE.

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
Note: Number of shared interrupts (nSI) is eight for all HSP instances but only five of them are used in AON_HSP, BPMP_HSP, SCE_HSP, RCE_HSP, DCE_HSP, PVA_HSP, and APE_HSP instances.
##### 9.7.2.1.3 Shared Mailboxes
- HSP supports two types of shared mailboxes, 32-bit and 128-bit. Each of the eight shared
mailboxes in HSP can be used as either 32-bit shared mailbox or 128-bit mailbox. Usage of 32-bit Mailbox and 128-bit Mailbox is mutually exclusive as they share same Full and Empty interrupts. 32-bit Shared Mailbox The 32-bit shared mailboxes are word width registers with a very simple interrupt mechanism controlled by the MSB. Their simplest operating model is single writer/single reader. Each 32-bit shared mailbox has the following resources: A 32-bit register. Full and empty interrupts controlled by the MSB value of the register. The MSB is interpreted as a Valid bit, so the full interrupt is the value of the MSB and the empty interrupt is the inverted value of the MSB. Enable bits for full and empty interrupts. 128-bit Shared Mailbox To add support for Mailbox data width>31-bit, 128-bit Mailbox support is added in Orin:
- Current Software is not impacted and can choose between 32-bit mailbox vs 128-bit mailbox
as per the use-cases.
- Five new registers are added for 128-bit mailbox support: one register for TAG and four
registers of each 32-bit for mailbox data. Mailbox full interrupt is asserted when the TAG field of the TAG register is one and mailbox empty bit is asserted when the TAG is set to 0 in TAG register. Mailbox data can be written into the four new mailbox data registers as per the required data size.
- The number of shared mailboxes is extended to support more than one pair of communicating
processors and virtualization requirements. There are 24 unidirectional mailboxes (eight for TOP0, eight for TOP1, eight for TOP2) at TOP_HSP and eight unidirectional mailboxes local to each Cortex-R5, FSI, and A9 cluster: APE, BPMP, AON, SCE, RCE, DCE, PVA0, and FSI. Additionally, SCE cluster has SCE_HSP1 and SCE_HSP2 instances each with eight unidirectional mailboxes, RCE cluster has RCE_HSP1 and RCE_HSP2 instances each with eight unidirectional mailboxes and DCE cluster has DCE_HSP1 and DCE_HSP2 instances each with eight unidirectional mailboxes. The expected usage model of shared mailboxes is:
- Dedicated to a specific consumer, as it is generally easier to share the input port

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
- Dedicated to a bidirectional IPC method, in which case shared mailboxes are allocated as a
pair, one per direction
- Preferably, the IPC is between one producer and one consumer to avoid resource conflicts
This is not always possible in multithreaded or multiprocessor use cases, in which either: A single threaded software agent is used as a resource manager per direction, arbitrating, and dispatching message. This assumes that all software producers are able to synchronize using software mechanisms, i.e., not shared mailboxes, and the same for all software consumers. This is a viable model for the BPMP ↔ CCPLEX IPC.
- The input and output semaphores are used for resource sharing
No easy way to operate a mailbox with agents at different levels of security on the same port.
- If the IPC requires a mix of security levels and QoS per level, the IPC must use as many
mailboxes as required to achieve the required QoS.
- Targeting (very) short messages, not bulk transfer. The assumption is that the message can
identify a descriptor for a larger structure when needed, possibly via an address offset against some known base or an index in a list or whatever is convenient for software. Shared mailboxes are not optimized for bandwidth.
##### 9.7.2.1.4 Shared Semaphores
- The shared semaphores are registers with associated SET/CLR addresses to allow easy
manipulation of individual bits inside them, i.e., without the need for a RMW operation. There is no hardware arbitration, so software must statically allocate the ownership of individual semaphores for correct operation. The shared semaphores are formed by three registers, each 32-bits wide:
- Read-write register showing the current value of the semaphore
- Two write-only registers to set and clear individual semaphore bits
- These semaphores can be used for synchronizing processors acting in a producer/consumer
relationship, i.e., a pair of them can be used to implement either a two- or four-way handshake. Correct operation of the shared semaphores require to statically allocate an owner for each bit, because it is impossible to implement an atomic test and set (or similar operation) given the register interface. It also means that calling them "semaphores" is a bit misleading; they are atomic set and atomic clear registers.
##### 9.7.2.1.5 Arbitrated Semaphores
The arbitrated semaphores are true binary semaphores that also include state information to avoid a busy spin loop if so wanted. The arbitrated semaphores support two sides, denoted 0 and 1, and arbitrates between requests coming from each side. In essence, the arbitrated semaphores are built in the following way, all registers being 32-bits wide:

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
A set of read only flags representing ownership (SMP_GNT_ST), showing ownership of the semaphore, one register per side (0 and 1). A set of write only trigger request flags (SMP_GET), a processor can only acquire a resource (represented by a bit in the status word) through setting a corresponding request flag. The request is blocked until the resource is not owned by a different processor. Currently, request flags are only cleared by acquiring the resource. Again, there is one register per side (0 and 1). A set of clear flags (SMP_PUT), a processor relinquishes ownership by writing a one bit corresponding to the shared resource (read-write). A set of request status flags (SMP_REQ_ST) showing the current pending requests (read only) One companion set of registers is defined, with one register per side (0 and 1). Enable register (INT_EN), enabling the generation of an interrupt if the corresponding status bit toggles. Storing the request information instead of using write triggers allows the following implementation to avoid the typical busy spin lock loop and the corresponding waste of bandwidth and power.
- EnableOwnershipInterrupt (i);
- RequestResource (i);
- WaitForInterrupt();
##### 9.7.2.1.6 Doorbell Logic
A doorbell allows a set of source agents in the chip to request the attention of a specified target agent. The doorbell logic presents two logically separate interfaces: 1. The trigger interface can be used by any master in the system; the doorbell logic uses source ID tracking to recognize the exact source. The control interface is normally configured for use by the target agent only. 2. Note that the doorbell SLICE1 registers support masters with masterId>15. The trigger interface also distinguishes between TrustZone secure and not secure security levels. The doorbell includes one bit per possible source, per supported security level. Writing to the trigger interface sets a corresponding bit as shown in the pseudo code below (for one doorbell):
- SourceID = f(pUSER) // extract source ID for APB USER field
- If SourceID <= 15
- If pns == TZ_SECURE: Slice0[Map_0][SourceID] = 1b
- If pns == TZ_NOT_SECURE: Slice0[Map_1][SourceID] = 1b
- Else if ((SourceId >=16) && (SourceId < 32))
- If pns == TZ_SECURE: Slice1[Map_0][SourceID] = 1b
- If pns == TZ_NOT_SECURE: Slice1[Map_1][SourceID] = 1b

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
The control logic uses security aware registers to control whose agent has access to it, with the following set of registers:
- Standard security configuration register to specify the exact security model
- Bitmap indicating which sources can raise the doorbell signal and at which security level
- Status/control register indicating the set of sources with pending flags (clear on write)
- Status/control register indicating the raw bitmap (clear on write)
The control logic then generates one doorbell signal per doorbell. The doorbell signals are:
- Exposed as a port with a direct connection to the target processor cluster interrupt
controller
- VIC inside a Cortex-R5 cluster
- GIC inside the APE cluster
LIC for CCPLEX, and from there directly to the GIC, as the GIC is essentially transparent for the CCPLEX path
- CCPLEX power management
- CCPMU register for the CCPMU doorbell
Exposed to the interrupt crossbar logic in the HSP, so that it can be mapped as a HSP shared interrupt, allowing the doorbell to be routed to a different target. The operation of one doorbell is illustrated in the figure below:
**Figure 9.71 Doorbell Logic**

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
Doorbells are identified by numbers, with the following mapping between a doorbell number and its intended destination.
- Table 9.66 Mapping between Doorbell Number and Usage
- Doorbell
- Target
- CCPMU
- CCPLEX TrustZone not secure
- CCPLEX TrustZone secure
- BPMP
- AON
- SCE
- APE
- RCE
- DCE
- PSC
#### 9.7.2.2 Multiple Processors Access to Shared Resources
The SoC does not support full coherency mechanisms, so an IPC protocol must tackle ordering and visibility issues. The protocol uses a doorbell interrupt to get attention and a standard structure of circular buffers plus associated read/write pointers in shared memory (internal or external). With this model, the expected software sequence looks like the following:
##### 9.7.2.2.1 Source Processor
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
- Writes a set of messages with known format in shared memory circular buffer structure
- If the shared memory is cacheable, flushes its cache to make the messages globally visible
- Issues a DMB to ensure that pointer and message are ordered
- Writes the value of the write pointer at known location in shared memory
- If the shared memory is cacheable, flushes its cache
- Issues a DMB to ensure ordering between pointer and interrupt
- Writes to a doorbell register in MMIO space to trigger the interrupt to the destination
##### 9.7.2.2.2 Destination Processor
1. 2.
- Receives doorbell interrupt and enters Interrupt Service Routine
Reads the associated doorbell status register to identify the set of source processors with pending messages

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
3.
- Cache invalidates the address used by the write pointer for the source processor circular
buffer
- Issues a DMB
- Read the write pointer
Cache invalidates the addresses used by the set of messages identified by the write pointer
- Issues a DMB
- Reads the set of messages
4. 5. 6. 7. 8.
#### 9.7.2.3 Using Doorbells for Handshake During Boot Sequence
During the boot sequence, the doorbells are used to synchronize the boot sequence across multiple processors. Each doorbell allows for a full handshake between two processors, denoted as B (normally BPMP) and D (normally CCPLEX power management). The handshake makes sure that D executes a specific task A at a time controlled by B and works like this. B performs all tasks that must be done before task A can be done. When everything is ready, B signals to D that it can proceed by ringing D doorbell (i.e., writing to the doorbell trigger register). B can continue working on other tasks not dependent on task A completion. When it reaches a point that requires task A to be complete, B check the doorbell pending status. If the doorbell is still asserted, B waits for completion by polling on the doorbell status. D performs all tasks that must be done before task A can be done. When everything is ready D checks if its doorbell is asserted. If not, it polls on its doorbell until assertion. D performs task A, then signals completion to B by clearing the doorbell (i.e., by writing to the doorbell pending status). Clearing the doorbell is acting as an acknowledge by D.
- When B sees the doorbell pending status deasserted, it knows that task A is complete and
can now execute tasks dependent on task A completion.
#### 9.7.2.4 Shared Interrupts Configuration
Each shared interrupt is the aggregate of the selected bits; in other words, each shared interrupt is driven by the same structure of AND followed by OR used in LIC. The figure below shows the logic for the Top0 HSP instance.

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
**Figure 9.72 Shared Interrupt Logic**
Assume that software wants to map the shared interrupts as follows:
- Shared0 is a (aggregated) mailbox empty, so IE0 = 0xFF
- Shared1 is a (aggregated) mailbox full, so IE1 = 0xFF << 8
- Shared2 is Arbitrated Semaphore 0, and Arbitrated Semaphore 1 is not used, so IE2 = 0x1 <<
#### 9.7.2.5 Programming Model
The programming model is register based.

