# 9.7.4 HSP Registers

The set of registers is split across the different modules, each set share a common base. Each module has a number of 64-KiB pages to help in virtualization in Orin and all of the modules expose their registers via an APB interface. Each submodule in HSP has its own set of 64-KiB pages plus an extra 64-KiB page for the common registers. The different windows are placed one after the other in this order:
- One 64-KiB page for the common registers
nSM/2 64-KiB pages for the shared mailboxes, grouped in pairs to support bidirectional communication. The number of mailboxes in a given HSP must be even. nSS 64-KiB pages for the shared semaphores nAS 64-KiB pages for the arbitrated semaphores One 64-KiB page for the doorbells. All these are referred to a base address shown as HSP_{inst}_BASE in this document, where {inst} identifies the specific HSP instance. All transactions sent to a given module must be terminated, if an address is not assigned or if the access violates some access restrictions, an error response is sent and the access does not affect any state outside of the APB interface itself.
#### 9.7.4.1 Common Registers
Common registers are used for two independent reasons:
- For truly common functionality
To increase the functionality while keeping the legacy architecture. This is done for security handling. It is recommended for some modules are treated as one security group, with the security handling performing in a wrapper that instantiates the legacy code. 1. 2. The common registers offset is from HSP_{inst}_BASE. The common registers consist of Security Control Registers (SCRs) and HSP Interrupt registers:
- HSP_SCR_SS_{ss}_REG_0
- HSP_SCR_AS_{as}_REG_0
- HSP_SCR_SM_{sm}_REG_0

- HSP Registers
- HSP_SCR_DBELL_{db}_REG_0
- HSP_INT_SCR_SCR_C0_REG_0
- HSP_INT_IE{i}_0 (register array)
- HSP_INT_IV_0
- HSP_INT_IR_0
#### 9.7.4.2 HSP Interrupt Registers
The mapping of the HSP internal interrupts is defined as follows:
- Bits[00 + [nSM-1:0]] are the empty interrupts of the nSM instantiated shared mailboxes
- Bits[08 + [nSM-1:0]] are the full interrupts of the nSM instantiated shared mailboxes
- Bits[16 + [nDB-1:0]] are the interrupts of the nDB instantiated doorbells
Bits[ 28 + [nAS-1:0]] are the grant interrupts of the nAS instantiated arbitrated semaphores Bits not defined by the mapping above are marked reserved and not physically present. This is true for both IE{i} and IR registers. Note that this mapping means that nSM, nDB cannot exceed eight and nAS cannot exceed four, for a given HSP instance. These registers have the same bit mapping, shown in the following table.
- Table 9.67 Format of the IE{i} and IR Interrupt Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description

