# 9.7.3 Programming Guidelines

#### 9.7.3.1 Shared Mailboxes
A shared mailbox serves a unidirectional communication between a producer and a consumer. The two masters agree upon a mailbox to use, and which master is the producer and which master is the consumer. In the following sequences, it is assumed that shared mailbox {sm} is selected.

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
##### 9.7.3.1.1 Producer Sending a Message
- Make sure the selected shared mailbox is empty by checking the TAG field of register
- HSP_SHRD_MBOX_MBOX_{sm}_SHRD_MBOX_0 or HSP_SHRD_MBOX_MBOX_{sm}
_SHRD_MBOX_TYPE1_TAG_0 register for 128-bit mailbox.
- Write the message in the DATA field of register HSP_SHRD_MBOX_MBOX_{sm}
_SHRD_MBOX_0 or HSP_SHRD_MBOX_MBOX_{sm}_SHRD_MBOX_TYPE1_DATA*_0 registers for 128-bit mailbox. Set the TAG field of the register to 1. 1. 2.
##### 9.7.3.1.2 Consumer Receiving a Message
1.
- Read register HSP_SHRD_MBOX_MBOX_{sm}
_SHRD_MBOX_0 or HSP_SHRD_MBOX_MBOX_{sm}_SHRD_MBOX_TYPE1_TAG_0 register for 128-bit mailbox. If TAG field is 1, then the DATA field carries the message. After consuming the message in the mailbox, set the TAG field of the register to 0. The DATA field is don't care and can be written with any value. 2.
#### 9.7.3.2 Shared Semaphores
A producer/consumer pair uses shared semaphore to synchronize management of a shared resource. Each bit in a shared semaphore register represents a shared semaphore. The producer and consumer select a shared semaphore to use (a particular shared semaphore register and a particular bit) and agree on their roles. In the following sequences, we assume bit {b} of shared semaphore register {ss} is selected.
##### 9.7.3.2.1 Producer
1.
- Make sure the shared semaphore is empty by checking that bit {b} in HSP_SHRD_SEM_{ss}
_SHRD_SMP_STA_0 is 0. The Producer writes to the shared resource. Indicate the data in the shared resource is ready for consumption by writing 1 to bit {b} in HSP_SHRD_SEM_{ss}_SHRD_SMP_STA_SET_0. 2. 3.
##### 9.7.3.2.2 Consumer
1.
- The shared resource is ready for consumption when reading HSP_SHRD_SEM_{ss}
_SHRD_SMP_STA_0 return value 1 in bit {b}. The Consumer consumes the data in the shared resource.
- Indicate that the shared resource is available for new data by writing 1 to bit {b} in
HSP_SHRD_SEM_{ss}_SHRD_SMP_STA_CLR_0. 2. 3.

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
#### 9.7.3.3 Arbitrated Semaphores
Each arbitrated semaphore is accessed through two register sets, indexed by 0 and 1; one set for each master sharing the arbitrated semaphore. Each bit in the arbitrated semaphore register corresponds to an arbitrated semaphore. The two masters agree on an arbitrated semaphore to use (a particular arbitrated semaphore register and a particular bit), and agree on which master takes register set 0 and which master takes register set 1. In the following sequences, we assume bit {b} of the arbitrated semaphore register {as} is selected.
##### 9.7.3.3.1 Requesting Semaphore with Interrupt
- Enable the ownership interrupt by setting the corresponding bit in HSP_ARB_SEM{0,1}_{as}
_INT_EN_0. Set the corresponding bit in HSP_ARB_SEM{0,1}_{as}_SMP_GET_0 to 1. Wait for the interrupt. When that happens, the semaphore is acquired. 1. 2. 3.
##### 9.7.3.3.2 Requesting Semaphore with Busy Spin Lock
Set bit {b} in HSP_ARB_SEM{0,1}..{as}_SMP_GET_0 to 1.
- Poll register HSP_ARB_SEM{0,1}..{as}_SMP_GNT_ST_0. When the bit {b} is 1, the semaphore
is acquired. 1. 2.
##### 9.7.3.3.3 Relinquishing Semaphore
Set bit {b} in HSP_ARB_SEM{0,1}_{as}_SMP_PUT_0 to 1. 1.
#### 9.7.3.4 Doorbells
A triggering master can ask for attention from the receiving master by ringing the doorbell of the receiving master. In the following sequences, we assume {db} is the doorbell index of the receiving master. There is a dedicated doorbell for each master in TOP0_HSP.
##### 9.7.3.4.1 Ringing a Doorbell
Check that the receiving master receives the doorbell by ensuring that the bit corresponds to the triggering master and its security level in HSP_DBELL_<db>_ENABLE_0 for masters with MasterID 0-15 and HSP_DBELL_<db>_ENABLE_SLICE1_0 for masters with MasterID 16-31. Write to HSP_DBELL_{db}_TRIGGER_0. Any value can be written. 1. 2.

- HSP Registers
##### 9.7.3.4.2 Answering a Doorbell
After servicing a doorbell, the receiving master clears the doorbell from a particular master and security level by writing 1 to the corresponding bit in HSP_DBELL_{db}_PENDING_0 registers for masters with MasterId 0-15 and HSP_DBELL_<db>_PENDING_SLICE1_0 for masters with MasterID 16-31.

