# 9.7.1 Overview

This chapter describes various modules used to allow multiple processors to share resources and communicate together. These synchronization elements are intended for software level interprocessor synchronization and messaging, especially between different Arm processors. This chapter does not discuss the synchronization elements used between a processor and a peripheral, or the mechanisms used between software threads in the same processor cluster.
#### 9.7.1.1 Rationale
The Arm® instructions supporting exclusive access (LDREX/STREX, SWAP, etc.) can only be used inside a coherency domain and so cannot be used between different processor clusters in the SoC. This hardware therefore provides a set of hardware synchronization primitives for interprocessor synchronization. There are also times when the cores inside the CCPLEX clusters do not operate in an SMP fashion. This is required particularly during some power management sequences with caches and/or MMU disabled. Hardware synchronization may again be required during these periods if exclusive access to a shared resource is required.
#### 9.7.1.2 Use Cases
- Interprocessor Communication (IPC) protocols use hardware synchronization mechanisms,
especially the doorbells, when operating between two processors not in an SMP relationship.

- Hardware Synchronization Primitives (HSP)
#### 9.7.1.3 Shared Mailboxes
The shared mailboxes support a single-writer and single-reader model.
#### 9.7.1.4 Shared Semaphores
The shared semaphores are formed by three registers, each 32-bits wide: A register showing the current value of the semaphore
- Two write-only registers to set and clear individual semaphore bits
#### 9.7.1.5 Arbitrated Semaphores
The arbitrated semaphores are true mutex binary semaphores that also include state information to avoid software use of a busy spin loop if so desired.
#### 9.7.1.6 Doorbells
The doorbells implement a simple mechanism to support IPC protocols. Each doorbell is one-to-one associated with a given destination processor, and the assertion of the doorbell signal indicates to the destination processor that at least one other processor requires attention, typically because the source processor posted a message in memory.
- The doorbell mechanism uses a source-tracking approach to aggregate multiple requests for
attention into a single register, simplifying the software communication model: the target processor identifies the set of pending requests through a single register read.

