# 9 :2

- HL
- L3/L4 Header Length
- This field contains the length of the header of the packet split by the
MAC at L3 or L4 header boundary as identified by the MAC receiver. This field is valid only when the first descriptor bit is set (FD = 1).
- The header data is written to the Buffer 1 address of corresponding
descriptor. If header length is zero, it implies that the MAC did not identify and split the header and both Buffer 1 and Buffer 2 are used for storing the packet.
- For VxLAN tunneled packets, header length = (header length of outer
packet + eight bytes of VxLAN header + header length of inner packet).
- For NVGRE tunneled packets, header length = (outer packet header
length +inner packet header length).

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- AVTDP
- AV Tagged Data Packet
- When L34T=0000, this bit is set to 1 when AV Tagged Data packet is
received
- When L34T is nonzero, this bit is HL for packet split by the MAC at L3 or
L4 header.
- AVTCP
- AV Tagged Control Packet
- When L34T=0000, this bit is set to 1 when AV Tagged Control packet is
received.
- When L34T is nonzero, this bit is HL[0] for packet split by the MAC at
L3 or L4 header.
- RDES3 Normal Descriptor (Write-Back Format)
- OWN
- Own Bit
- When this bit is set, it indicates that the DWC_xgmac DMA owns the
descriptor. When this bit is reset, it indicates that the application owns the descriptor. The DMA clears this bit when either of the following conditions is true: The DMA completes the packet reception. The buffers associated with the descriptor are full.
- CTXT
- Receive Context Descriptor
- When this bit is set, it indicates that the current descriptor is a context
type descriptor. The DMA writes 1'b0 to this bit for normal receive descriptor.
- FD
- First Descriptor
- When this bit is set, it indicates that this descriptor contains the first
buffer of the packet. If the size of the first buffer is 0, the second buffer contains the beginning of the packet. If the size of the second buffer is also 0, the next descriptor contains the beginning of the packet. CTXT, FD, and LD bits together indicate Descriptor Definition Error.
- During write-back, all three bits are set to 1 {CTXT, FD, LD} = 3’b111 to
indicate Descriptor Definition Error in the Rx Descriptor. Descriptor
- Definition Error for Rx Descriptor is indicated when both Buffer-1 and
Buffer-2 are all 1s.
- LD
- Last Descriptor
- When this bit is set, it indicates that the buffers to which this
descriptor is pointing are the last buffers of the packet.
- CDA
- Context Descriptor Available
- When this bit is set, the next descriptor following this descriptor is a
Context Descriptor.
- RSV
- RSS Valid
- When this bit is set, it indicates that valid RSS Hash is available in
- RDES1[31:0]. This bit is valid only when the RSS function is enabled
MAC_RSS_Control register. In case of frame duplication, this field is 0.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- ISP
- In Sequence Packet
- When this bit is reset, it indicates that this packet is not in sequence
(TCP sequence number) with respect to the previous packet transferred by this DMA, or the RSS Hash value is different for this packet with respect to the RSS Hash calculated and given for the previous packet.
- When this bit is set, it indicates that this TCP packet is in sequence
with respect to the previous packet transferred by this DMA. The RSS hash values also match. The application can do a TCP coagulation of this packet with the previous packet transferred by this DMA.
- This bit is valid only when the OoS function is enabled in
MAC_RSS_Control register. This bit is not valid if it is a tunneled packet. (TNP=1)
- ETM/NCP
- Ether Type Match / No Coagulation Packet
- When L34T=000, this bit is set to 1 (ETM Status) when the “Type” field
of the received packet matches the value programmed in the AC_Rx_Eth_Type_Match register.
- When L34T has any value other than 000 and this bit is set to 1 (NCP
- Status), it indicates that the DMA has received a packet that must not
be kept holding for TCP packet coagulation. It must be forwarded to the
- TCP/IP stack immediately even though it may be in sequence with
respect to the previous packet.
- NCP Status is valid only when the OoS function is enabled in the
MAC_RSS_Control register.
- For a tunneled packet, ETM refers to the Type Match of the Inner
Ethernet Header. NCP is not supported for a tunneled packet. 23:20
- L34T
- Layer3 / Layer4 packet Type
- These bits indicate the type of payload encapsulated in the IP datagram
and processed by the Receive Checksum Offload Engine (RxCOE).
- For a tunneled packet, the Layer3/Layer4 packet type refers to the L3/
L4 type of the inner packet. 0000: Not an IP packet 0001: IPv4 packet with TCP Payload as Layer4 0010: IPv4 packet with UDP Payload as Layer4 0011: IPv4 packet with ICMP Payload as Layer4 0100: IPv4 packet with IGMP Payload is Layer4 0101 to 0110: Reserved 0111: IPv4 with unknown (unsupported) payload 1000: Reserved 1001: IPv6 packet with TCP Payload as Layer4 1010: IPv6 packet with UDP Payload as Layer4 1011: IPv6 packet with ICMP Payload as Layer4 1100 to 1110: Reserved 1111: IPv6 with unknown (unsupported) payload

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description 19:16
- ET/LT
- Error Type or L2 Type
- When the 15th bit of this descriptor (ES) is set to 1, this field indicates
the Error Type. When the 15th bit of this descriptor (ES) is set to 0, this field indicates the L2 Packet Type.
- When ES = 1 (Error Type Encoding)

