# 9 :4

- RW
0x4 PCIE_CAP_MAX_LINK_WIDTH:
- Maximum Link Width. This field indicates the maximum Link width (xN -
corresponding to N Lanes) implemented by the component. This value is permitted to exceed the number of Lanes routed to the slot (Downstream
- Port), adapter connector (Upstream Port), or in the case of component-to-
component connections, the actual wired connection width. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. Multi-Function devices associated with an Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all functions. In M-PCIe mode, the reset and dynamic values of this field are calculated by the controller. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: - Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This register field is sticky. 3:0
- RW
0x4 PCIE_CAP_MAX_LINK_SPEED:
- Max Link Speed. This field indicates the maximum Link speed of the
associated Port. The encoded value specifies a bit location in the
- Supported Link Speeds Vector (in the Link Capabilities 2 register) that
corresponds to the maximum Link speed. All encodings other than the defined encodings are reserved. Multi-Function Devices associated with an
- Upstream Port must report the same value in this field for all functions. In
M-PCIe mode, the reset and dynamic values of this field are calculated by the controller. Note: The access attributes of this field are as follows: -
- Wire: R (sticky) - Dbi: if (DBI_RO_WR_EN == 1) then R/W else R Note: This
register field is sticky.
- PCIE_X8_EP_PF0_PCIE_CAP_LINK_CAPABILITIES_REG_0
- Reset: 0x00474c84 (0b0000,0000,0100,0111,0100,1100,1000,0100)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description

