# 10.12 Universal Asynchronous Receiver/

- Transmitter (UART)
### 10.12.1 Overview
There are seven Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitters (UARTs) built into the System-on- Chip (SoC). Six of them are in the LSIO cluster in the SoC power domain, and the other instance is in ULP in the AON power domain. These UARTs support both 16450- and 16550-compatible modes and all are identical in feature set. UARTs support full-duplex serial data transmission, performing synchronization and parallel-to- serial and serial-to-parallel data conversion. Synchronization is accomplished by adding start and stop bits to transmit data to form a data character. Data integrity may be accomplished by attaching an optional parity bit to the data character. The parity bit can be checked by the receiver for any transmission bit errors. The interface supports word lengths from five to eight bits, an optional parity bit, and one or two stop bits. If enabled, parity can be odd, even, or forced to a defined state. Interrupts can be generated from any of 10 sources.
- The UART controller supports both 16450 and 16550 compatible modes. The default mode is
16450 (non-FIFO mode). FIFO mode provides two independent FIFOs for transmit and receive and is selected by the FIFO control register. The controller also includes a 16-bit programmable baud rate generator and an 8-bit scratch register, up to six "modem" control lines, and two internal DMA handshake lines that are used to indicate when the FIFOs are ready to transfer data to the CPU.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
The UARTs support a device clock of up to 204 MHz. Each symbol requires 16 clock cycles for proper sampling and processing of the input data stream. Thus, the maximum baud rate is 204/16
- 12.75 Mbps. Because 1 symbol = 1 bit, the data rate is 12.75 Mbps.
#### 10.12.1.1 Features
The features supported by the UARTs are as follows: Synchronization for the serial data stream with start and stop bits to transmit data to and from a data character
- Data integrity by attaching a parity bit to the data character
Support for word lengths from 5 to 8 bits, with an optional parity bit, and one or two stop bits Support for both 16450- and 16550-compatible modes. The default mode is 16450.
- Baud tolerance of ±2.7% (10 bits per character)
- DMA capable for both Tx and Rx
8-bit x 36-deep Tx FIFO 11-bit x 36-deep Rx FIFO 3 bits of 11 bits per entry logs the Rx errors in FIFO mode (break, framing, and parity errors as bits 10, 9, 8 of the FIFO entry)
- Auto sense baud detection
- Timeout interrupts to indicate if the incoming stream stopped
- Flow control support using RTS and CTS (hardware/software controlled)
- Internal loopback
- SIR encoding/decoding (3/16 or 4/16 baud pulse widths to transmit bit 0)
#### 10.12.1.2 Security Features
There are no secure control or TrustZone protected registers in the UART register specification. Access may however be controlled from the Control Back-Bone of the SoC.
#### 10.12.1.3 Hardware Signaling
- All UARTs are implemented by a hardware block that supports modem control signals. For all
UARTs, the DSRn and DCDn input signals are tied high (active); the RIn input signal is tied low; and the DTRn output signal is not connected.
- Table 10.94 Serial Bus Interface Signals
- Signal Name
- Description
- Outputs

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Signal Name
- Description
- TXD
- Transmit Data Port
- RTS
- Request to Send
- DTRn
- Data Terminal Ready
- Inputs
- RXD
- Receiver Data Port
- CTS
- Clear to Send
- DSRn
- Data Set Ready
- DCDn
- Data Carrier Detect
- RIn
- Ring Indicator
Note: The DSR, DCD, and RI modem control signals do not control any UART hardware other than generating interrupts and status on change.
#### 10.12.1.4 Clocking
The UART controller requires three clock sources: 1. 2. 3.
- APB clock: Maximum frequency is 408 MHz
clk_24M: Maximum device/Interface clock: 102 MHz clock baud_clk: Maximum frequency of this clock is 204 MHz
##### 10.12.1.4.1 Clock Sources
- Table 10.95 Clk_24M Clock Sources
- UARTA/UARTB/UARTD/UARTE/UARTF/UARTH
- PLLP_OUT0, CLK_S, CLK_M
- UARTC
- PLLP_OUT0, PLLC_OUT0, pllAON_out, OSC_UNDIV, CLK_S
- Clock Divisors
- UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_CLK_DIVISOR/AON_UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_CLK_DIVISOR: X = Divide by (N/2+1)
- To achieve the required fast clock for UART controller, the following registers should be
programmed:
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_0
CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_AON_UART_FST_MIPI_CAL_0.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
The source of the clock can be chosen by programming [31:29] of this register and the divisor by programming [7:0]. Divisor to be programmed in [7:0] N = ((X-1)*2)
- Table 10.96 Baud_clk Clock Sources
- UARTA/UARTB/UARTD/UARTE/UARTF/UARTH
- PLLP_OUT0, CLK_S, CLK_M
- UARTC
- PLLP_OUT0, PLLC_OUT0, pllAON_out, PLLC4_muxed (controlled by
- PLLC4_CLK_SEL), CLK_S, OSC_UNDIV
- Clock Divisor Options
UART dll/dlm registers work as clk divisor as in the clock registers.
- To achieve the required baud rate for a given UART controller, the
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UART*_0 register should be programmed. The source of the
clock can be chosen by programming [31:29] of this register and divisor by programming [15:0]. To achieve a divisor value of 'X', the register should be configured with value N=((X-1)*2). Programming bit 24 determines if the programmed [15:0] divisor should be used or the DLM/DLL value from UART. Only one of them can be used at a time.
- For example: Source clock: CLK_M -> crystal clock of 38.4 MHz
- To achieve baud rate of 115200, baud_clock needed = 1.8432 MHz
- To achieve 1.8432 MHz with 38.4 MHz crystal clock, divisor needed is (38.4/1.8432) =
20.833333 Since CAR registers provide divisors with granularity of 0.5, the nearest divisor can be either
## 20.5 or 21.
- For divisors of 20.5, 21 baud frequencies that can be achieved are (38.4/20.5) = 1.873 MHz
and (38.4/21) = 1.8285 MHz, respectively. Based on the error %, the nearest baud rate that can be achieved is 1.8285 MHz
- For divisor of 21, value to be programmed in [15:0] is 0x28, [31:29] = 0x7
The UART supports baud tolerance of +/-4% (10 bits per character).
- The table below summarizes the divisor to achieve a 115200 baud rate with different source
frequencies.
- Table 10.97 Divisor for Baud Rate
- Value of divisor (DR) = N/
2+1
- UARTA_CLK_DIVISOR
(N)
- Osc Clk Frequency
(M)
- For baud rate 115200,
divisor needed D = (M *1000*1000) / (115200 *16) 6.51 6.5 11 (=0xb)

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Value of divisor (DR) = N/
2+1
- UARTA_CLK_DIVISOR
(N)
- Osc Clk Frequency
(M)
- For baud rate 115200,
divisor needed D = (M *1000*1000) / (115200 *16) 7.053 7.0 12 (=0xc) 19.2 10.417 10.5 19 (=0x13) 14.106 14.0 26 (=0x1a) 38.4 20.833 21.0 40 (=0x28) 26.042 26.0 50 (=0x32)
#### 10.12.1.5 Use Cases
Potential use cases are listed in the following table.
- Table 10.98 UART Use Cases
- Interface
- Use Case
- ULP/AON
- LSIO
- UART Pins on
- Interface
I/O Rail to Power Up the Instance
- UART1/UARTA
- GPS
- Yes
- TXD/RXD/CTS/RTS
- VDDIO_G3
- UART2/UARTB
- First Bluetooth (for driver)
- Yes
- TXD/RXD/CTS/RTS
- VDDIO_G2
- UART3/UARTC
- Primary Debug (2-pin only)/
- Boot UART – open-box
debug solution.
- Yes
- TXD/RXD
- VDDIO_AO
- UART4/UARTD
- Second Bluetooth (for
passenger)
- Yes
- TXD/RXD/CTS/RTS
- VDDIO_G4
- UART5/UARTE
- Satellite Radio (Sirius XM)
- Yes
- TXD/RXD/CTS/RTS
- VDDIO_G2
- UART6/UARTF
- UART debug over DP-AUX0
(2-pin only) – closed-box debug solution
- Yes
- TXD/RXD
- VDDIO_EDP1
- UART8/UARTH
- UART debug over USB2 (2-
pin only) – closed box debug solution
- Yes
- TXD/RXD
- AVDD_USB
Typically, UART use cases should enable the flow control mechanism to allow for smooth data transfers. Without flow control, data overflow/underflow may be seen due to changes in system load conditions. For example, in the debug console use case, lack of flow control may result in erroneous print on the console. For other use cases, not enabling flow controller can functionally disrupt the behavior.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
#### 10.12.1.6 Error Handling
The UART has a APB slave error port to generate a slave error (APB4.0 specification compliant). The APB slave error is generated by the UART if there is access to a register that does not exist (address hole) or if a write request is issued to a read-only register. If there are errors in the Rx data, there is no way currently to associate error information with a particular character unless post-processing is done on the characters received, which negates the benefit of DMA. The software will re-transfer a chunk if needed. This makes the controller incompatible with the standard POSIX I/O error handling.
### 10.12.2 Programming Guidelines
Below are typical groups of registers required in a peripheral initialization sequence/programmer model. All GROUP1 registers must be configured before the IP registers in GROUP2 are configured.
- GROUP1
- CAR registers
- Pad Control registers
- Pinmux registers
- GPC DMA registers
- Interrupt Control registers
- GROUP2
- IP registers
Pad control and pinmux registers are typically done once during the boot and they affect runtime performance. These registers must be properly programmed during SC7 exit context recovery. In this case, you must enable strict, for example. If boot ROM changes the pad controls to enable the boot media interface (to avoid a daisy situation due to ordering). Similarly, with SC7 exit the complete pinmux recovery should occur before the drivers start accessing the interface. The security ordering (SO) setting is part of the CACHEABLE[3:0] bits on the AXI interface and should be SET to enforce SO of the downlink APB clients. If those bits are zero, then a transaction is SO and the bridge waits for the write response from the slave. Use the BRIDGE_EARLY_ACK_DISABLE bit for debugging.
#### 10.12.2.1 UART Register Access
UART uses an APB interface for register access with a 64 KB AMAP. The following are address offsets for different UART controllers.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Table 10.99 Address Offsets for UART Controllers
- Controller
- Offsets
- UART1/UARTA (LSIO)
0000:0000 0000:ffff
- UART2/UARTB (LSIO)
0001:0000 0001:ffff
- UART3/UARTC (AON)
0028:0000 0028:ffff
- UART4/UARTD (LSIO)
0003:0000 0003:ffff
- UART5/UARTE (LSIO)
0004:0000 0004:ffff
- UART6/UARTF (LSIO)
0005:0000 0005:ffff
- UART8/UARTH (LSIO)
0007:0000 0007:ffff Typical APB delay (request seen at UART controller interface to response) is two APB cycles.
#### 10.12.2.2 16450 Mode Programming
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Program pinmux settings to select a UART. Enable the UART clocks. Apply module reset. If internal loopback is needed, program MCR[4] to 1. Program FCR[0] to 0. Enable interrupts in the IER register as needed. Write data into the THR register. Wait for a THR interrupt, if enabled, or poll for LSR[5]. During a receive, wait for an RDR interrupt or poll for LSR[0]/LSR[9]. Read the UART.LSR register to clear interrupts. 10.
#### 10.12.2.3 16550 Mode Programming
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Program pinmux settings to select a UART. Enable the UART clocks. Apply module reset. For enabling internal loopback, program MCR[4] to 1. Program FCR[0] to 1. Poll IIR[6] to see if FIFO_MODE is really enabled. Program trigger levels as required. Enable interrupts in the IER register as needed. Write data into the THR register. Wait for a THR interrupt, if enabled, or poll for LSR[5]. 10.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
11. 12. 13. During a receive, wait for an RDR interrupt or poll for LSR[0]/LSR[9]. Read the UART.LSR register to clear interrupts. GPC DMA requester numbers for UARTs A/1, B/2, C/3, D/4, E/5, F/6, G/7, and H/8 are 8, 9, 3, 19, 20, 12, 2, and 13, respectively.
- Interface
- DMA Flow Control Mapping
- UART1
- GPC DMA + CBB's AXI2APB Bridge
- UART2
- GPC DMA + CBB's AXI2APB Bridge
- UART3
- AON Cluster DMA, BPMP DMA, and GPC DMA + CBB's AXI2APB Bridge
- UART4
- GPC DMA + CBB's AXI2APB Bridge
- UART5
- GPC DMA + CBB's AXI2APB Bridge
- UART6
- AON Cluster DMA and GPC DMA + CBB's AXI2APB Bridge
- UART8
- AON Cluster DMA and GPC DMA + CBB's AXI2APB Bridge
##### 10.12.2.3.1 UART Instances to GPCDMA Mapping
LSIO instances:
- UART1/A – 8
- UART2/B – 9
- UART4/D – 19
- UART5/E – 20
- UART6/F – 12
- UART8/H – 13
AON UART instances:
- UART3/C – 3
#### 10.12.2.4 Transmitter and Receiver Holding Registers
The serial transmitter section consists of a Transmit Hold Register (THR) and Transmit Shift Register (TSR). The status of transmit hold register is provided in the Line Status Register (LSR). Writing to this register (THR) transfers the contents of data bus (D [7:0]) to the Transmit Holding Register whenever the Transmit Holding Register or Transmit Shift Register is empty. The Transmit Holding Register empty flag is set to 1 when the transmitter is empty or data is transferred to the Transmit Shift Register. Note that a write operation is performed when the Transmit Holding Register empty flag is set.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
The serial receiver section also contains an 8-bit Receiver Holding/Buffer Register (RBR). Receive data is removed from the UART and received by the processor by reading the RBR. The receiver contains a mechanism for preventing false starts as follows: On the falling edge of the start bit, the receiver internal counter starts to count 7.5 clocks (16x clock), which is the center of the start bit. If the input goes high before counter reaches mid-point sampling, RX_FSM is moved back to the IDLE state and that is treated as a start bit glitch. Verifying the start bit prevents the receiver from assembling a false data character due to a low going noise spike on the Rx input. Receiver status codes are posted in the Line Status Register.
#### 10.12.2.5 FIFO Interrupt Mode Operation
When the receive FIFO (FCR bit 0 = 1) and receive interrupts (IER bit 0 = 1) are enabled, a receiver interrupt occurs as follows:
- The receive data available interrupts are issued to the CPU when the FIFO has reached its
programmed trigger level; it is cleared as soon as the FIFO drops below its programmed trigger level. The ISR receive data available indication also occurs when the FIFO trigger level is reached, and like the interrupt, it is cleared when the FIFO drops below the trigger level.
- The data ready bit (LSR bit 0) is set as soon as a character is transferred from the shift
register to the receiver FIFO. It is reset when the FIFO is empty.
#### 10.12.2.6 FIFO Polled Mode Operation
When FCR bit 0 = 1; clearing IER bits [3:0] to zero puts the UART in the FIFO polled mode of operation. Since the receiver and transmitter are controlled separately, either one or both can be in the polled mode operation by using the line status register as follows:
- LSR bit 0 is set when the number of entries is greater than or equal to trigger level
programmed
- LST bits [4:1] specifies which error(s) has occurred
- LSR bit 5 indicates when the transmit FIFO is empty
- LSR bit 6 indicates when both transmit FIFO and transmit shift registers are empty
- LSR bit 7 indicates when there are any errors in the receive FIFO
- LSR bit 8 indicates when the transmit FIFO is full
- LSR bit 9 indicates Rx FIFO empty status
The UART requires a two-step FIFO enable operation in order to enable receive trigger levels.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
#### 10.12.2.7 Programmable Baud Rate Generator
The UART contains a programmable baud rate generator that is capable of taking the UART clock input and dividing it by any divisor from 1 to 216-1 The UART clocks are defined in the Clocking chapter. The output frequency of baudout is equal to 16X the transmission baud rate (Baudout=16 X baud rate). Customized baud rates are achieved by selecting proper divisor values for the MSB and LSB bits of the baud rate generator.
#### 10.12.2.8 Enable Register
There is an Interrupt Enable Register (IER) for each UART. The Interrupt Enable Register(s) masks the incoming interrupts from the receiver ready, transmitter empty, and line status.
#### 10.12.2.9 Interrupt Identification Register
The UART provides four level prioritized interrupt conditions to minimize software overhead during data character transfers. The Interrupt Identification Register (IIR) provides the source of the interrupt in a prioritized manner. During the read cycle, the 16550 provides the highest interrupt level to be serviced by the CPU. No other interrupts are acknowledged until the particular interrupt is serviced. The prioritized interrupt levels are shown in the table below. The Receive Data Time-out mode is enabled when the UART is operating in the FIFO mode. Receive time-out does not occur if the receive FIFO is empty. The time-out counter is reset at the center of each stop bit received or each time the receive holding register is read. The actual time out value is: T (Time out length in bits) = 4xP (Programmed work length) + 12 To convert the time-out value to a character value, divide this number to its complete word length + parity (if used) + number of stop bits and start bit.
- Example
If you program the word length = 7, no parity, and one stop bit, the time-out is: T = 4x7 (programmed word length) + 12 = 40 bits.
- Character time = 40/9
(Programmed word length = 7) + (stop bit = 1) + (start bit = 1) =4.4 characters

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Table 10.100 Prioritized Interrupt Levels
- Priority
- D3
- D2
- D1
- D0
- Interrupt Source Description
- LSR (Receiver Line Status Register)
- RXRDY (Received Data Ready)
- RXRDY (Received Data Timeout)
- TXRDY (Transmitter Holding Register)
- MSR (Modem Status Register)
#### 10.12.2.10 FIFO Control Register
##### 10.12.2.10.1 FIFO Control Register Modes
The FIFO control register (FCR) is used to enable the FIFOs, clear the FIFOs, set the receiver FIFO trigger level, and select the type of DMA signaling.
##### 10.12.2.10.2 FIFO Mode (CR bit 0 = 1)
FCR bit 0 should be programmed to '1' to operate the UART controller in FIFO (16450) mode. When FIFO mode is enabled, allow minimum of three baud cycles duration before writing TX_DATA into the THR_DLAB register. Design requirement: It takes three baud cycles for the fifo_mode enable signal to synchronize to the baud_clk domain and ~fifo_mode_bclk is also a flush condition for Tx and Rx FIFOs. When FIFO mode is enabled through a register write in the pclk domain and if there is not enough delay before servicing THRE interrupt/NTXRDY requests, the written data is lost. To ensure proper data transfer, after fifo_mode is enabled for first time through register write, give a delay of minimum of three baud cycles before writing TX_DATA into the THR register. The operation of the FCR in the four DMA modes is given below.
##### 10.12.2.10.3 Transmit Operation in DMA Mode 0 or Mode 1
When the UART is in the 16450 mode (FCR bit 0 = 0) or in the FIFO mode (FCR bit 0 = 1, FCR bit 3 = 0) and when there are no characters in the transmit FIFO or Transmit Holding Register, the TXRDY* pin goes low. Once active, the TXRDY* pin goes high (inactive) after the first character is loaded into the Transmit Holding Register.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
##### 10.12.2.10.4 Receive Operation in DMA Mode 0
When the UART is in 16450 mode (FCR bit 0 = 0) or in the FIFO mode (FCR bit 0 = 1, FCR bit 3 = 0) and there is at least 1 character in the receive FIFO, the RXRDY* pin goes low. Once active, the RXRDY* pin goes high (inactive) when there are no more characters in the receiver.
##### 10.12.2.10.5 Receive Operation in DMA Mode 1
When the UART is in the FIFO mode (FCR bit 0 = 1, FCR bit 3 = 1) and the trigger level or the timeout has been reached, the RXRDY* pin goes low. Once it is activated, it goes high (inactive) when there are no more characters in the FIFO.
#### 10.12.2.11 Line Control Register
The Line Control Register (LCR) is used to specify the asynchronous data communication format. The word length, stop bits, and parity can be selected by writing appropriate bits in this register.
#### 10.12.2.12 Modem Control Register
The Modem Control Register (MCR) controls the interface with the modem or a peripheral device (RS232).
##### 10.12.2.12.1 Loopback Mode
If MCR[4] = 1, the loopback mode is enabled, and the following occurs: The receiver input (Rx), CTS, DSR, CD, and RI are disabled. Internally, the transmitter output is connected to the receiver input and DTR, RTS, OP1, and OP2 are connected to modem control inputs. In this mode, the receiver and transmitter interrupts are fully operational, but the interrupt sources are now the lower four bits of the Modem Control Register instead of the four modem control inputs. The interrupts are controlled by the IER register.
#### 10.12.2.13 Line Status Register
The Line Status Register (LSR) provides the status of data transfer to the CPU.
#### 10.12.2.14 Modem Status Register
The Modem Status Register (MSR) provides the current state of the control lines from the modem or peripheral to the CPU. Four bits of this register are used to indicate the changed information. These bits are set to "1" whenever a control input from the modem changes state. They are set to "0" whenever the CPU reads the register.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
#### 10.12.2.15 Scratchpad Register
Eight bits of information can be stored in the Scratchpad Register (SR). Information in this register does not affect the operation of the device in any way.
#### 10.12.2.16 Auto-Baud Sense Register
- The UART can automatically determine the correct baud divisor by using the auto-baud sense
register (UART offsets 0x3C). The most significant bit of this register is the valid flag. A write to this register clears the valid flag and enable the auto-baud process. When the first Rx edge occurs, a counter running at 24 MHz starts counting. When another rx_edge occurs, the "complete" flag is set, the value is frozen, and the auto-baud sense value register is updated with the count value. The low 20 bits of the Auto-Baud Sense Register (ASR) give the number of clocks within a single bit. Because the UART uses 16x oversampling, the resulting value needs to be adjusted by shifting right 4 bits, then loading the resulting count in the divisor latch of the UART. (In the code snippet below, the lower 4 bits are rounded to give slightly greater accuracy.) Because the speed determination is made by measuring the start bit, special characters must be sent by the transmitting UART to guarantee that the next character after the start bit is a 1. Since bit 0 (rightmost bit) is sent first, the ASCII Carriage Return character (CR) is sufficient to enable proper speed sense. The following code snippet returns the values for DLH and DLL in r9, r8:
- MOV r0, #1 ; dummy write data
- STRB r0, \[r3, #U_ASR\]; Start autobaud sense (r3 as uart_base)
; now poll the autobaud sense register MSB until Valid is true wait4valid
- LDR r2, \[r3, #U_ASR\]; Read ASR
- TST r2, #0x80000000 ; the Valid bit (active high)
- BEQ wait4valid
; autobaud sense check complete... ; r2 as number of 1x clocks in one bit time ; representing the number of 24MHz clocks in the start bit ; Since this represents 16 of the baud (16x) clocks, we ; will be dividing by 16 to get baud divisor, but first ; round to nearest by adding 8 before the divide:
- ADD r4, r2, #8 ; add 1/2 resolution
- MOV r6, r4, LSR #4 ; divide by 16... R6 will have total divisor
- AND r8, r6, #0xFF ; copy DLL to r8
- MOV r9, r6, LSR #8 ; copy DLM to r9
- AND r9, r9, #0xff ; mask upper bytes

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
#### 10.12.2.17 Baud Rate Generator
The following table is a divisor table for the baud rate, assuming the oscillator is 24.000 MHz.
- Divisor = (osc clock/(baud rate*16))*106
- Table 10.101 Baud Rate Generator Programming
- Baud Rate
- Divisor
19.2K 38.4K 57.6K 115.2K 460.8K
#### 10.12.2.18 SIR Pulse Encoder/Decoder
The UART transmit (Tx) data is passed through the SIR Pulse Encoder/Decoder module prior to being muxed out to the IR transmitter. This module converts transmitted zeros into a 3/16 Return- To-Zero (RZ) pulse. Similarly, received (Rx) data is bit-synchronized using the 16x baud clock and the original serial data recovered from the IR bit stream. This data is then sent to the UART for reception. The signal generated in SIR is as follows: On logic '1' the LED is off. On logic '0' a pulse is created starting the center of the bit time and lasting 3/16 of bit time period or 4/16 of bit time period depending on the current settings. The figure below displays the output for the input 101001 (in sending order) in SIR encoding. If SIR encoding/decoding has to be used in loopback mode, the following programming guideline/ sequence is required: 1.
- Program SIR enable

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
2. 3.
- Wait for a minimum of (4*baudclk)+ ( 4clk24m)
- Program loopback enable
**Figure 10.151 Output in Sending Order in SIR Encoding**
#### 10.12.2.19 UART Interrupts and Interrupt Service Routine
There are multiple conditions on which a UART interrupt is generated. The following are interrupts available for the UART controller. Each of the interrupts is routed to an interrupt controller, if the corresponding Interrupt enable bit in the IER register is set. 1.
- EORD: This indicates an end of received data interrupt. This interrupt is set when UART Rx
detects there is no data being received for more than four character times. This is useful to determine that the transmitter is done with sending all its data. In FIFO mode, this interrupt is not generated if data is stopped because of handshaking.
- RXT: RX_TIMEOUT interrupt occurs when data has been sitting in RX_FIFO for more than
four character times due to some reason. One reason could be because there is not enough data to reach the trigger level. This interrupt needs to be handled by software to have data reception in a timely manner. RXS: This interrupt indicates there are errors detected in the received data. The error could be break error/overrun error/parity error or framing error. A Break error occurs when a break condition (all zeros) has been detected on an Rx line. An Overrun error indicates a new character reception from an external device when the Rx FIFO is already full. Parity error occurs because of parity mismatch and framing error occurs when stop bit of a character received is '0' instead of '1'. Handling framing errors: When a framing error is detected at UART Rx, the reference point for further sampling is lost. UART Rx needs the line to be continuous HIGH for at least one character time to recover the sampling point. All subsequent data after framing error detection needs to be discarded by software (clear IER[0] before flushing the FIFO to avoid any spurious interrupt). 2. 3. 4.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
Retransmission is required on framing error cases. This needs some protocol at a higher level than the UART. When there is framing error seen by software, the UART line needs to be maintained HIGH for at least one character time to let Rx recover. This has to be completely handled by software. For a 4-pin UART, RTS can be used to stop further reception of data until Rx recovers.
- Force RTS to let Tx stop sending further data
- Rx given enough time to recover
- Deassert RTS
- Start receiving further data
5. 6. 7. 8. a. THR: This interrupt indicates the Transmit Holding Register is empty. In FIFO mode, this is set when there is enough space in the FIFO based on trigger level setting so that software can start writing Tx data into the THR register.
- RDR: Receive data ready interrupt is asserted when number of entries in RX_FIFO has
reached the trigger level programmed when in FIFO mode. This bit is an indicator to start reading the contents of RX_FIFO. While servicing RDR, disable the RXT interrupt and enable it after RDR is serviced. b. When uart_intr is asserted, software reads the IIR register to know which interrupt occurred. The interrupts in the UART are prioritized and hence IIR always shows the current highest priority interrupt. If more than one interrupt is pending to be serviced, the one with the highest priority is shown in IIR. When all interrupts have been serviced, IIR shows no_interrupt. The interrupt priority is defined per the encoding below (the priorities are listed highest to lowest): IIR[3:0] priority level: 0001: no interrupt pending 0110: Overrun Error, Parity Error, Framing Error, Break 0100: Receiver Data Available 1100: rx_timeout_intr 1000: eord_timeout_intr 0010: Transmitter Holding Register empty 0000: modem_status interrupt The interrupt service routine (ISR) for UART interrupts is not same for all and varies depending on type of interrupt. This section summarizes the ISR expected for clearing each of the interrupt condition. RXS interrupt: LSR read clears this interrupt. RXS interrupt conditions include parity/break/ overrun or framing error. Parity/break/framing errors also clear on Rx FIFO pop operation.
- RDR/RX_TIMEOUT interrupt: These interrupts are cleared on reading the Read buffer register
EORD interrupt: IER[5] needs to be disabled to clear this interrupt. The bit can be re-enabled again to receive further interrupts.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
THR interrupt: IIR read or write to buffer data register clears this interrupt. The interrupt keeps occurring until writes are performed to buffer the write register to fill the FIFO and reach the trigger level.
- Disabling an interrupt_enable bit for any of the following interrupts lead to clearing of
uart_intr.
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- IE_MSI: Interrupt Enable for Modem Status Interrupt
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 IE_RXS: Interrupt Enable for Receiver Line Status Interrupt. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- IE_THR: Interrupt Enable for Transmitter Holding Register Empty
interrupt 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- IE_RHR: Interrupt Enable for Received Data Interrupt
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE Notes: 1. Interrupt enable for RXS interrupt (IE_RXS) should be disabled whenever LSR is polled/read to avoid spurious interrupts because of errors detected in receive data. LSR read is an interrupt clearing mechanism for RXS errors.
- In the UART controller, status registers are also masked with corresponding IE bits unlike
conventional controller's implementation. Disable the RXT interrupt before issuing an Rx FIFO flush request. Enable RXT after the flush is done. 2. 3. Interrupt mapping of different UART instances is listed in the table below.
- Interface
- Interrupt Mapping
- UART1
- LIC
- UART2
- LIC
- UART3
- LIC, BPMP, SPE
- UART4
- LIC
- UART5
- LIC
- UART6
- LIC, SPE
- UART8
- LIC, SPE

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
#### 10.12.2.20 FIFO Flushing Guidelines
The UART controller provides TX_CLR and RX_CLR bits to flush the FIFOs. The FIFOs can be flushed independently or simultaneously by following the programming guidelines below:
##### 10.12.2.20.1 Non-loopback Node
- Simultaneous flush (TX_FLUSH and RX_FLUSH in single register write)
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Make sure there is no new data being written to TX_buffer. Program rts_enable to 0 (MCR[6]). Make sure MCR[1] is 0. Wait for 1 character time.
- Issue flush requests - Program TX_CLR to 1 and RX_CLR to 1 (UART_IIR_FCR_0[2],
UART_IIR_FCR_0[1]). Poll for TMTY to be '1' (UART_LSR_0[6]). Poll for RDR to be '0' (UART_LSR_0[0]). Re-enable rts_enable MCR[6]. Perform new transfers. 6. 7. 8. 9.
##### 10.12.2.20.2 Independent Flush Operations (Tx/Rx separately)
Tx flush: 1. 2. 3. 4. Make sure there is no new data being written to TX_buffer. Program TX_CLR to 1 (UART_IIR_FCR_0[2] - TX_FLUSH request). Poll for TMTY to be '1' (UART_LSR_0[6]). Perform new transfers. Rx flush: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. Program rts_enable to 0 (MCR[6]). Make sure MCR[1] is 0. Wait for 1 character time. Program RX_CLR to 1 (UART_IIR_FCR_0[1] - RX_FLUSH request). Poll for RDR to be '0' (UART_LSR_0[0]). Re-enable rts_enable MCR[6]. Perform new transfers.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
##### 10.12.2.20.3 Loopback Mode
Simultaneous flush operations do not work (TX_FLUSH and RX_FLUSH in a single register write). The only option is to disable the FIFO mode bit. Two independent flushes to be issued as mentioned below to flush both FIFOs: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. Program rts_enable to 0 (MCR[6]). Make sure MCR[1] is 0. Program TX_CLR to 1 (UART_IIR_FCR_0[2] - TX_FLUSH request). Poll for TMTY to be '1' (UART_LSR_0[6]). Program RX_CLR to 1 (UART_IIR_FCR_0[1] - RX_FLUSH request). Poll for RDR to be '0' (UART_LSR_0[0]). Re-enable rts_enable MCR[6]. Perform new transfers.
#### 10.12.2.21 UART Boot
UART3 is used for boot. The access path is as follows:
- BPMP-R5 → BPMP-NOC → CBB-NOC → AON-NOC → UART
Clock configuration that can be used for UARTC fast boot (@192 MHz baud clock = 12 MHz baud rate) as follows. Clock source options available for UARTC baud clock are:
- PLLP_OUT0, PLLC_OUT0, pllAON_out, PLLC4_muxed (controlled by PLLC4_CLK_SEL), CLK_S,
- CLK_M
To achieve a baud rate as high as 12 MHz, PLLC4 is the right source.
- PLLC4 has three output options, and you can choose PLLC4_OUT2 by programming
- CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_PLLC4_MISC1_0[16:15] = 0x1 (see the Clock Controller chapter for the
details of the CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_PLLC4_MISC1_0 register).
- With an oscillator frequency at 38.4 MHz, a 192 MHz baud clock can be achieved using PLLC4
option as follows:
- Crystal frequency = 38.4 MHz, N = 50, M = 2
- PLLC4_OUT0 = 38.4*(50/2) = 960 MHz (Normal Frequency mode)
- PLLC4_OUT2 = VCO/DIV5 = 960/5 = 192 MHz
- Choosing divisor = 1 (CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UARTC_0.UARTC_CLK_DIVISOR = 0),
baud frequency = 192/1 = 192 MHz can be achieved.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_PLLC4_MISC1_0. PLLC4_CLK_SEL[16:15] = 0x1 [To select
- PLLC4_OUT2 which is PLLC4-VCO/5 as the PLLC4_MUXED clock selection]
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UARTC_0. UARTC_CLK_SRC[31:29] = 0x1 [To
select PLLC4_MUXED]
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UARTC_0.UARTC_CLK_DIVISOR = 0x0 [To select
the UART final post-divider value '1,' i.e., the equation is PLL_C4-VCO/5]
- Set CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_CLK_SOURCE_UARTC_0.UARTC_DIV_ENB=0x1 [To select UART
divisor programmed in CAR register] Notes: 1.
- With PLLC4_OUT0 = 998.4 MHz, PLLC4_OUT1 = 332.8 MHz, PLLC4_OUT2=199.68 – normal
EMMC mode selection.
- For Fast boot @ 192 MHz (12 MHz baud), nearest possible value that can be achieved using
- CLK_DIV=0. This gives nearest baud_clk of 199.68 MHz
- Baud clock = PLLC4_OUT2/DIVISOR = (199.68/((0/2)+1)) = 199.68/1 = 199.68 MHz
2. 3.
- Optimized PIO mode programming model to meet fast boot requirement @ 192 MHz baud clock is
as below: RDR generation in the SoC is dependent on trigger setting. So to avoid two reads for each register access as was being done in Boot ROM, use one RDR for every 16-byte read (assuming trigger level set is 16) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
- Set Rx trigger level to 16
- Check for RDR
- Issue 16 read data requests to UART
- Go back to step 2
- For any residue bytes which are a non-multiple of 16, read the residue bytes using the
RX_FIFO_EMPTY register available in LSR register.
#### 10.12.2.22 IRDA_CSR Register (UART_IRDA_CSR_0)
The IRDA_CSR register provides configuration bits to enable SIR mode, and pulse width and invert polarity options for CTS/RTS/TXD and RXD pins. Default polarity of TXD/RXD/CTS/RTS pins is active low and usage of invert polarity option reverses polarity to active high. Use the below programming model for the invert_RXD option in case of 4-pin UART: 1. 2. 3. 4.
- Get UART controller out of reset
- Force RTS from the SoC so that data from external device is not sent out
- Program invert_rxd=1 in the SoC
Wait for 1 character time (character sampling may be in progress in the SoC with false start bit interpreted)
- Flush Rx FIFO
5.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
6. 7.
- Release RTS
- Start characters reception from Tx
For the no-flow control case: 1. 2. 3.
- Get UART controller out of reset
- Program invert_rxd=1 in the SoC
Wait for 1 character time (character sampling may be in progress in the SoC with false start bit interpreted)
- Flush Rx FIFO
- Remove external device out of reset
- Start characters reception from Tx
4. 5. 6.
- The same guidelines are applicable when switching the invert_rxd option through register
configuration.
#### 10.12.2.23 Pad and Pinmux Information
The UART uses active-low protocol by default (unless invert rts/cts/txd/rxd options are used). To facilitate sharing with other pads, some of the pins may have pulldown by default. For correct operation, the pins should be pulled up using pad control programming before removing the UART controller from reset.
##### 10.12.2.23.1 UART1/UARTA
UARTA has one pinmux option as the primary interface on UART1 Tx/Rx/RTS/CTS pins.
- PIN
- REGISTER
- PADCTL
I/O PAD
- CTS
- PADCTL_CAM_UART1_CTS_0
- PADCTL_CAM_CFG2TMC_UART1_C
- TS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VDVXP1P1P1
- RTS
- PADCTL_CAM_UART1_RTS_0
- PADCTL_CAM_CFG2TMC_UART1_R
- TS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
- RXD
- PADCTL_CAM_UART1_RX_0
- PADCTL_CAM_CFG2TMC_UART1_R
X_0
- BDPGLPHVIN_EFCR90_VXVDP1P1
- P1
- TXD
- PADCTL_CAM_UART1_TX_0
- PADCTL_CAM_CFG2TMC_UART1_T
X_0
- BDPGLPHVIN_EFCR90_VXVDP1P1
- P1
##### 10.12.2.23.2 UART2/UARTB
UARTB has one pinmux option as the primary interface on UART2 Tx/Rx/RTS/CTS pins.

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- PIN
- REGISTER
- PADCTL
I/O PAD
- CTS
- PADCTL_UART_UART2_CTS_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART2_C
- TS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VDVXP1P1P1
- RTS
- PADCTL_UART_UART2_RTS_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART2_R
- TS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
- RXD
- PADCTL_UART_UART2_RX_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART2_R
X_0
- BDPGLPHVIN_EFCR90_VXVDP1P1
- P1
- TXD
- PADCTL_UART_UART2_TX_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART2_T
X_0
- BDPGLPHVIN_EFCR90_VXVDP1P1
- P1
##### 10.12.2.23.3 UART3/UARTC
UARTC has one pinmux option as the primary interface on UART3 Tx/Rx pins.
- PIN
- REGISTER
- PADCTL
I/O PAD
- RXD
- PADCTL_AO_UART3_RX_0
- PADCTL_AO_CFG2TMC_UART3_RX
_0
- BDPGLPHVIN_EFCR90_VDP1P1P1
- TXD
- PADCTL_AO_UART3_TX_0
- PADCTL_AO_CFG2TMC_UART3_TX
_0
- BDPGLPHVIN_EFCR90_VDP1P1P1
##### 10.12.2.23.4 UART4/UARTD
UARTD has one pinmux option as the primary interface on UART4 Tx/Rx/RTS/CTS pins.
- PIN
- REGISTER
- PADCTL
I/O PAD
- CTS
- PADCTL_CONN_UART4_CTS_0
- PADCTL_CONN_CFG2TMC_UART4_
- CTS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VDVXP1P1P1
- RTS
- PADCTL_CONN_UART4_RTS_0
- PADCTL_CONN_CFG2TMC_UART4_
- RTS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
- RXD
- PADCTL_CONN_UART4_RX_0
- PADCTL_CONN_CFG2TMC_UART4_
- RX_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
- TXD
- PADCTL_CONN_UART4_TX_0
- PADCTL_CONN_CFG2TMC_UART4_T
X_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
##### 10.12.2.23.5 UART5/UARTE
UARTE has one pinmux option as the primary interface on UART5 Tx/Rx/RTS/CTS pins.
- PIN
- REGISTER
- PADCTL
I/O PAD
- CTS
- PADCTL_UART_UART5_CTS_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART5_C
- TS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VDVXP1P1P1

- Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)
- PIN
- REGISTER
- PADCTL
I/O PAD
- RTS
- PADCTL_UART_UART5_RTS_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART5_R
- TS_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
- RXD
- PADCTL_UART_UART5_RX_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART5_R
X_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
- TXD
- PADCTL_UART_UART5_TX_0
- PADCTL_UART_CFG2TMC_UART5_T
X_0
- BDPGLP_JFCR90_VXVDP1P1P1
##### 10.12.2.23.6 UART6/UARTF
I/O pad: BDDPAUX_F3FCR90_VD181818NC UART6 is muxed internally in LSIO with I2C6 that operates on DP-AUX-CH0. Mux Sel is configured in DPAUX_PINMUX_CFG_0 register. I2C6 would be used with DP Aux port and pinmux doesn’t exist for this. I2C vs Aux channel mode selection happens from a register bit field in DP registers.
- Interface has DP_AUX_CH0_P and DP_AUX_CH0_N pins. UART6 would use I2C mode of the DPAUX
pad.
- DPAUX_HYBRID_PADCTL_0
I/O Pad: BDDPAUX_F3FCR90_VD181818NC
- AUX
MODE: 0 = AUX 1 = I2C
- DPAUX_PINMUX_CFG_0
- PINMUX_CFG
This pinmux is implemented in LSIO cluster. It determines the interfaces for I2C6 is connected to real I2C6 or UART6. The pinmux configurations are as follows: 0: DPAUX (Functional / Default) 1: UART6 (Debug) UART is sharing I2C pins internal to LSIO; UART uses I2C mode of pad.
- The signal generated by this register is output of DPAUX and input to LSIO cluster
- Refer to the Display Interfaces: HDMI and DisplayPort chapter for more information on the
DPAUX_HYBRID_PADCTL_0 and DPAUX_PINMUX_CFG_0 registers.

- UART Registers
##### 10.12.2.23.7 UART8/UARTH
UART8 is multiplexed over USB2. Pinmux does not exist for this. UART8 <-> XUSB Pad Macro <-> USB PADLET <-> USB PAD.
- For UART8 to be operational, set either of the following in XUSB_PADCTL_USB2_PAD_MUX_0
register.
- USB2_OTG_PAD_PORT0 = UART
(or)
- USB2_OTG_PAD_PORT1 = UART
- No other PAD programming sequence is needed. Above mentioned settings would configure the
- PAD in test mode as far as UART over USB2 pins is concerned. Note that fields
USB2_OTG_PAD_PORT2 and USB2_OTG_PAD_PORT3 are NA.
### 10.12.3 UART Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers. The UART is based on the 16550 industry standard Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART), with enhancements to support auto-baud detection and End-of-Received Data timeout detection. The THR, RBR, and DLL registers all occupy the same address space.
- The Transmitter Holding Register (THR) is Write-Only, and can be accessed if the LSR.DLAB
bit is clear. The Receiver Buffer Register (RBR) is Read-Only, and can be accessed if the LSR.DLAB bit is clear.
- The Divisor Latch LSByte Register (DLL) is Read/Write and can be accessed if the LSR.DLAB
bit is set.
- UART_THR_DLAB_0_0
- UART Transmit Holding Register
- Offset: 0x0
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)

- UART Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
7:0
- WO
0x0
- THR_A: Transmit holding register, holds the character to be
transmitted by the UART. In FIFO mode, a write to this FIFO places the data at the end of the FIFO. 7:0
- RO
X RBR_A: Receive Buffer Register. Rx Data read from here. 7:0
- RW
0x0
- DLL_A: Divisor Latch LSB (low 8 bits of 16-bit Baud Divisor)
- UART_IER_DLAB_0_0
- The IER and DLH registers occupy the same address space, selected by the LSR.DLAB bit. The
Interrupt Enable Register (IER) is selected if the LSR.DLAB bit is clear. The Divisor Latch MSByte register (DLM) is selected if the LSR.DLAB bit is set. The DLM register holds the upper 8 bits of the 16-bit Baud Divisor (16x).
- Offset: 0x4
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx00,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 IE_EORD: Interrupt Enable for End of Received Data (EORD). 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- IE_RX_TIMEOUT: Interrupt Enable for Rx FIFO timeout. RX_TIMEOUT
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- IE_MSI: Interrupt Enable for Modem Status Interrupt
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- IE_RXS: Interrupt Enable for Receiver Line Status Interrupt
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- IE_THR: Interrupt Enable for Transmitter Holding Register Empty
interrupt 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- IE_RHR: Interrupt Enable for Received Data Interrupt
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- UART_IIR_FCR_0

- UART Registers
The FIFO Control Register (FCR) and Interrupt Identification Registers (IIR) occupy the same address space. The FCR is write-only and the IIR is read-only.
- UART FIFO Control Register POR = 0x00000000
The DMA can run in one of two modes: 1.
- If Mode0 is selected (NO_CHANGE), the Rx DMA request goes active whenever the Rx FIFO is
not empty. Only single byte transactions can be performed in this mode. If the FIFO is not enabled, Mode0 MUST be used.
- If Mode1 is selected (CHANGE), the Rx DMA request goes active whenever the Rx FIFO
trigger level is reached. 2. For best performance, always enable the FIFO and select DMA Mode 1. For RX_TRIG, the FIFO_COUNT references the number of bytes in the receive FIFO.
- For TX_TRIG, the FIFO_COUNT references the number of empty bytes in the transmit FIFO. For
example, FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_16 means that there are at least 16 empty byte slots in the TX_FIFO.
- UART Interrupt ID Register POR = 0x00000001
The Interrupt ID field indicates the current highest priority interrupt. If more than one interrupt is pending the one with the highest priority will be shown. The table below shows the encoding. Priority flows from top (highest) to bottom (lowest).
- IIR[3:0]
{IS_PRI2, IS_PRI1,IS_PRI0,IS_STA} Priority Level
- No interrupt (IS_STA=1, No pending interrupt)
Overrun Error, Parity Error, Framing Error, Break (IS_STA=0, overrun/parity/framing/break error interrupt is pending)
- Receiver Data Available (IS_STA=0, receiver data available interrupt is pending)
rx_timeout_intr (IS_STA=0, Rx timeout interrupt is pending) eord_timeout_intr (IS_STA=0, end of received data interrupt is pending) Transmitter Holding Register empty (IS_STA=0, transmitter holding register empty interrupt is pending) modem_status interrupt (IS_STA=0, modem interrupt is pending)
- UART FIFO Control and Interrupt Identification Registers
- Offset: 0x8
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- UART Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
R/ W
- Reset
- Description
7:6
- RO
X
- EN_FIFO: FIFO Mode Status. Bit 7 and bit 6 are the same
0x0 = 16450 mode (no FIFO) 0x3 = 16550 mode (FIFO) 1 = MODE_16550 0 = MODE_16450 7:6
- WO
0x0 RX_TRIG: 0 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_1 1 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_4 2 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_8 3 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_16 5:4
- WO
0x0
- TX_TRIG: 0 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_16
1 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_8 2 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_4 3 = FIFO_COUNT_GREATER_1
- RO
X IS_PRI2: Encoded Interrupt ID. Refer to the IIR[3:0] table above. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- WO
0x0 DMA: 0: DMA_MODE_0 1: DMA_MODE_1 0 = NO_CHANGE 1 = CHANGE
- RO
X IS_PRI1: Encoded Interrupt ID. Refer to the IIR[3:0] table above. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- WO
0x0 TX_CLR: 1 = Clears the contents of the transmit FIFO and resets its counter logic to 0 (the transmit shift register is not cleared or altered). This bit returns to 0 after clearing the FIFOs. 0 = NO_CLEAR 1 = CLEAR
- RO
X IS_PRI0: Encoded Interrupt ID. Refer to IIR[3:0] table above. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- WO
0x0 RX_CLR: 1 = Clears the contents of the receive FIFO and resets its counter logic to 0 (the receive shift register is not cleared or altered). This bit returns to 0 after clearing the FIFOs. 0 = NO_CLEAR 1 = CLEAR
- RO
X
- IS_STA: Interrupt Pending if ZERO
0 = INTR_PEND 1 = NO_INTR_PEND
- WO
0x0
- FCR_EN_FIFO: 1 = Enable the transmit and receive FIFOs. This bit should be enabled
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- UART_LCR_0
- UART Line Control Register

- UART Registers
- Offset: 0xc
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- DLAB: Divisor Latch Access Bit (set to allow programming of the DLH, DLM Divisors)
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- SET_B: Set BREAK condition. Transmitter sends all zeros to indicate BREAK
0 = NO_BREAK 1 = BREAK 0x0
- SET_P: Set (force) parity to value in LCR [4]
0 = NO_PARITY 1 = PARITY 0x0 EVEN: Even parity format. There will always be an even number of 1s in the binary representation (PAR = 1) 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- PAR: 0 = No parity sent
0 = NO_PARITY 1 = PARITY 0x0 STOP: 0 = Transmit 1 stop bit 1 = Transmit 2 stop bits (receiver always checks for 1 stop bit) 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 1:0 0x0
- WD_SIZE: 3 = Word length of 8
0 = WORD_LENGTH_5 1 = WORD_LENGTH_6 2 = WORD_LENGTH_7 3 = WORD_LENGTH_8
- UART_MCR_0
The Request-To-Send (RTS) and Clear-To-Send (CTS) pins are used for hardware handshaking with an external serial device. RTS informs the device that the UART is ready to accept data. CTS comes from the RTS of the external device and indicates that data can be sent. The RTS pin can be controlled manually with the RTS bit in the MCR or automatically by setting the RTS_EN bit. If RTS_EN is set, the RTS pin automatically removes the Request-To-Send when the FIFO reaches the trigger level. If the CTS_EN bit is set, the UART transmitter stops transmitting when the Clear-To-Send input is taken away.

- UART Registers
- Offset: 0x10
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,x000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 OLD_SIR_DECODE: Diagnostics bit to use the required SIR decode path. 0 = new SIR decode path 1 = old SIR decode path 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 9:8 0x0
- RI_POLARITY: Polarity selection bit for RI pin toggling to generate modem
status interrupt. 0x0 - interrupt is generated when RI pin toggles from low to high 0x1 - interrupt is generated when RI pin toggles from high to low 0x2 - interrupt is generated on RI delta change detection 0x3 - Reserved 0 = LOW_TO_HIGH 1 = HIGH_TO_LOW 2 = BOTH_EDGES 3 = RSVD 0x0
- DEL_QUAL_CTS_EN: Diagnostics bit to use the old qualified CTS in Tx
state machine 1 = use old qualified_cts 0 = use the new qualified_cts in Tx state machine 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- RTS_EN: 1 = Enable RTS Hardware Flow Control
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- CTS_EN: 1 = Enable CTS Hardware Flow Control
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- LOOPBK: 1 = Enable internal loop back of Serial Out to In
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- OUT2: nOUT2 (Not Used)
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- OUT1: nOUT1 (Not Used)
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- RTS: 0 = Force RTS to high if RTS hardware flow control not enabled
0 = FORCE_RTS_HI 1 = FORCE_RTS_LOW 0x0
- DTR: 1 = Force DTR to Low
0 = FORCE_DTR_HI 1 = FORCE_DTR_LOW

- UART Registers
- UART_LSR_0
- UART Line Status Register
- Offset: 0x14
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000260 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xx10,0110,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
X RX_FIFO_EMPTY: 1 = RX FIFO is empty 0 = RX FIFO has at least one entry 0 = NOT_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY X
- TX_FIFO_FULL: Transmitter FIFO full status
0 = NOT_FULL 1 = FULL X
- FIFOE: 1 = Receive FIFO Error
0 = NO_ERR 1 = ERR X
- TMTY: Transmit Shift Register empty status
0 = NO_EMPTY 1 = EMPTY X
- THRE: 1 = Transmit Holding Register is Empty – OK to write data
0 = FULL 1 = EMPTY X
- BRK: 1 = BREAK condition detected on line
0 = NO_BREAK 1 = BREAK X
- FERR: 1 = Framing Error
0 = NO_FRAME_ERR 1 = FRAME_ERR X
- PERR: 1 = Parity Error
0 = NO_PARITY_ERR 1 = PARITY_ERR X
- OVRF: 1 = Receiver Overrun Error
0 = NO_OVERRUN_ERROR 1 = OVERRUN_ERROR X
- RDR: 1 = Receiver Data Ready (Data available to read)
0 = NO_DATA_IN_FIFO 1 = DATA_IN_FIFO
- UART_MSR_0
- UART Modem Status Register

- UART Registers
- Offset: 0x18
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- CD: State of Carrier detect pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- RI: State of Ring Indicator pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- DSR: State of Data set ready pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- CTS: State of Clear to send pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- DCD: Change (Delta) in CD state detected
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- DRI: Change (Delta) in RI state detected
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- DDSR: Change (Delta) in DSR state detected
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- DCTS: Change (Delta) in CTS state detected
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- UART_SPR_0
- UART Scratchpad Register
- Offset: 0x1c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000)

- UART Registers
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
7:0 0x0
- SPR_A: Scratchpad register (not used internally)
- UART_IRDA_CSR_0
- UART IrDA Pulse Coding CSR Register
Bits [7:6] control the infrared (SIR) encoding. If enabled, each zero bit is transmitted as a short IR pulse. No pulse is sent during idle or '1' data bits. The IR pulse can be either 3/16 or 4/16 of a normal bit time. The low 4 bits control signal polarity and apply whether or not SIR coding is enabled.
- Offset: 0x20
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,00xx,0000)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0 SIR_A: 1 = Enable SIR coder 0 = Disable SIR coder 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0 PWT_A: 0 = 3/16th Baud Pulse 1 = 4/16th Baud Pulse 0 = BAUD_PULSE_3_14 1 = BAUD_PULSE_4_14 0x0
- INVERT_RTS: Inverts the normally inactive high nRTS pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- INVERT_CTS: Inverts the normally inactive high nCTS pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- INVERT_TXD: Inverts the normally inactive high TXD pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x0
- INVERT_RXD: Inverts the normally inactive high RXD pin
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- UART_RX_FIFO_CFG_0

- UART Registers
- Offset: 0x24
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000001 (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0x00,0001)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x0
- EN_RX_FIFO_TRIG: Enable use of RX_FIFO_TRIG count (obsoletes RX_TRIG
when enabled) 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 5:0 0x1
- RX_FIFO_TRIG: Set RX_FIFO trigger level (any value 1 through 32)
- UART_MIE_0
- UART Modem Interrupt Enable Register
- Offset: 0x28
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x0000000f (0bxxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,1111)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
0x1
- DCD_INT_EN: Interrupt Enable for Change (Delta) in CD state detected
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1
- DRI_INT_EN: Interrupt Enable for Change (Delta) in RI state detected
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1
- DDSR_INT_EN: Interrupt Enable for Change (Delta) in DSR state
detected 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE 0x1
- DCTS_INT_EN: Interrupt Enable for Change (Delta) in CTS state detected
0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE
- UART_VENDOR_STATUS_0_0
- UART Controller Status Register
- Offset: 0x2c
- Read/Write: RO
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N

- UART Registers
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000003 (0bxx00,0000,xx00,0000,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0011)
- Bit
- Reset
- Description
29:24 X
- TX_FIFO_COUNTER: The entry in this field reflects the number of
current entries in the Tx FIFO 21:16 X
- RX_FIFO_COUNTER: The entry in this field reflects the number of
current entries in the Rx FIFO X
- TX_OVERRUN: This bit is set to 1 when write data is issued to the Tx
- FIFO when it is already full and gets cleared on register read (sticky bit
until read) 0 = NO_OVERRUN 1 = OVERRUN X
- RX_UNDERRUN: This bit is set to 1 when a read is issued to an empty
- FIFO and gets cleared on register read (sticky bit until read)
0 = NO_UNDERRUN 1 = UNDERRUN X
- Reserved
X
- Reserved
- UART_ASR_0
- UART Auto Sense Baud Register
The UART has autobaud sensing logic that can measure the width of the start bit of incoming data to determine baud rate. For this to work, the incoming character must have its LSB set. A <cr> works well (0x0d). The logic uses the UART device clock to count how wide the start pulse is, and the BUSY bit is set when the sensing is complete. The value in {RX_RATE_SENSE_H, RX_RATE_SENSE_L} should be divided by 16 with Round-to-Nearest, and the resulting value loaded into the DLM, DLL register pair to set the Baud Clock to 16x the Baud Rate.
- Offset: 0x3c
- Read/Write: R/W
- Parity Protection: N
- Shadow: N
- SCR Protection: 0
- Reset: 0x00000000 (0b00xx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,0000,0000,0000,0000)
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
0x0 VALID: This bit is set when the controller finishes counting the clocks between two successive clock edges after there is a write to ASR with don't care data. 0 = UN_SET 1 = SET

- Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART
- Bit
- Rese
t
- Description
0x0 BUSY: This bit is set when there is a write to ASR and is reset when the controller finishes counting the clock edges between two successive clock edges. 0 = NO_BUSY 1 = BUSY 15: 0x0 RX_RATE_SENSE_H: Shows bits [15:8] of the count of clock edges between two successive clock edges. 7:0 0x0 RX_RATE_SENSE_L: Shows bits [7:0] of the count of clock edges between two successive clock edges.
