# 10.13 Server Base System Architecture (SBSA)

- UART
### 10.13.1 Overview
- The SBSA UART is a standard UART defined by Arm® as part of the Arm Server Base System
Architecture (SBSA). It also supports Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) for upstream kernel and standard OS boot.
#### 10.13.1.1 SBSA
Server Based System Architecture (SBSA) is a hardware-system architecture based on Arm 64-bit architecture. The primary goal of the SBSA is to specify a system architecture to allow a suitably built single OS image to run on all hardware compliant with this specification. For system development and bring up, the base server system includes SBSA UART. The Arm Server Base System Architecture specification is available from Arm's website. At the time of writing it is located at: https://developer.arm.com/documentation/den0029/c/.
#### 10.13.1.2 UART
The Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART) supports one-to-one communication. The UART controller provides serial data synchronization and data conversion (parallel-to-serial and serial-to-parallel) for both receiver and transmitter sections. UARTs transmit data asynchronously, so no clock signal is sent. Synchronization is done by adding start and stop bits to the data packet being transferred.

- Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART
Data integrity is accomplished by attaching a parity bit to the data character. The parity bit can be checked by the receiver for any transmission bit errors. The interface supports word lengths from five to eight bits, an optional parity bit, and one or two stop bits The UART controller supports both FIFO and non-FIFO modes of operation. FIFO mode provides two independent FIFOs for transmit and receive, and it is selected by the FIFO control register. The controller also includes a 16-bit programmable integer baud rate register, a 6-bit fractional programmable baud rate register, and two DMA handshake lines that are used to indicate when the FIFOs are ready for data transfers. The UARTs require a device clock from CAR with 16 clock cycles per symbol for proper sampling and processing of the input data stream.
##### 10.13.1.2.1 UART Use Cases
There are three SBSA UARTs built into Orin. One is in the Control Backbone Cluster, one is in the AON Cluster Fabric, and one is in the FSI.
- Table 10.102 UART Allocation
- Interfa
ce
- Target Application
- Max Baud
- Rate
- Logical Placement
- UART Pins on
- Interface
- UARTI
- Standard kernel boot and compliance to
- UEFI/ACPI. This instance is used explicitly
by CCPLEX for kernel boot post early boot.
- Regular debug prints and early boot would
be through UART-C, if this UART is used explicitly by CCPLEX.
- Max - 4M
- Typical -
- TOP
- Plugged to CBB
- TXD/RXD (no flow
control)
- Pin-muxed with
- UART_E
- UARTJ
- Standard kernel boot and compliance to
- UEFI/ACPI. This instance can be either
used/accessed by AON-R5 for early boot or by CCPLEX for standard kernel boot.
- Max - 12M
- Typical -
- AON
- Plugged to AON
- Fabric
- TXD/RXD (no flow
control)
- Pin-muxed with
- UART_C
- FSI_UAR
T
- Debug console support for FSI Cluster
- Typical -
- FSI
- Plugged to FSI Fabric
- TXD/RXD (no flow
control)
- No Pin-Mux
Typical Baud Rates and its applications:
- Debug console: 115200 Baud/460800 Baud (4x115200)/921600 Baud
- Fast boot/ATE: 12M (192 MHz baud frequency)
- Possible Baud rates supported - 9600/57600/115200/460800/3M/4M/12M
#### 10.13.1.3 Feature List
The SBSA-UART Feature List table captures the supported features, showing both what the UART itself can support, and what the implementation in Orin can support.

- Server Base System Architecture (SBSA) UART
- Table 10.103 SBSA-UART Feature List
S. No
- Feature
- Sub-feature
- Details
- Orin Support
- Frame Format
- Data bits
5 data bits support Y
- Data bits
6 data bits support Y
- Data bits
7 data bits support Y
- Data bits
8 data bits support Y
- Data bits
9 data bits support N
- Parity Bits
- Even Parity support
Y
- Parity Bits
- Odd Parity support
Y
- Stop bits
1 stop bit support Y
- Stop bits
