# 10.312 5 Gbps .

Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. 1. 2. 3. 4.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_RX_PCS_CLK_SRC_SEL = RX_PCS
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1
5G Effective Speed In this mode, MAC sends data at 5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMII interface operates at 32-bit @ 156.25 MHz. For 10G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is replicated twice to form 64-bit data at 156.25 MHz (UPHY still operates at 10G speed). This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 10.3125Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. 1. 2. 3.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1
2.5G Effective Speed In this mode, MAC sends data at 2.5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMI interface operates at 32-bit @ 78.125 MHz. For 10G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is replicated four times to form 128-bit data at 78.125 MHz (UPHY still operates at 10G speed). This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 10.3125Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register. 1. 2. 3.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 0 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 1

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Table 10.35 USXGMII_5G Frequency and Data Widths
- Notes
- UPHY Output
- Data Rate
(Gbps)
- UPHY Input
(F=Frequency
- MHz
D=Data Width)
- PCS Output
(F=Frequency
- MHz
D=Data Width)
- Effective
- Speed
- MAC Output
(F=Frequency
- MHz
D=Data Width) 10G F= 312.5 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53 D=16b 10.3125
- Not supported
5G F= 312.5/2 D= 32b F=312.5/4 D=66b F=644.53/2 D=16b 5.1562 2.5G F= 312.5/4 D= 32b F=312.5/2 D=66b F=644.53/2 D=16b 5.1562
- PCS output is
duplicated 2x. CAR divisor programming for the previously mentioned three cases is as follows: 5G Effective Speed MAC sends data at 5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface in this mode. The XGMII interface operates at 32-bit @ 156.25 MHz. For 5G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is converted to 64b data @ 78.125 MHz. This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 5.1562 Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2
1. 2. 3. 2.5G Effective Speed In this mode, MAC sends data at 2.5 Gbps rate through the XGMII interface. The XGMI interface operates at 32-bit @ 78.125 MHz. For 5G-SXGMII, the 32-bit XGMII data is replicated two times to form 64-bit data at 78.125 MHz (UPHY still operates at 5G speed). This data is then processed as per Clause 49 and finally sent towards the PHY at a rate of 5.1562 Gbps. Program the following fields in CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_CLK_CTRL_0 register.
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_MAC_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_PCS_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 3 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 4
- GBE_UPHY_MGBE0_TX_CLK_DIV_RATIO = 1 ;;Divide by N+1 makes it Divide by 2
1. 2. 3.
- PCS Details
In the transmit path, the XGMII transmit data (after replication) is encoded using a 64/66b encoder (as described in clause 49 of IEEE 802.3-2012). Then the data is scrambled and fed to a Gear-Box to convert the data to a 64b width suitable for the SERDES.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description In the receive path, data received data from SERDES is first fed to a reverse gear-box to convert it into 66-bit format. The data is then descrambled and 66/64b decoded. The data-replication (for speeds other than 10G) is removed and then suitably fed to XGMII port based on the operating speed mode. Data is replicated when sending to higher speed links as per clause 49. When sending to 10G link, 2.5G MAC Output data is replicated four times and 5G MAC Output data is replicated two times. Similarly when sending to 5G link, MAC Output data at 2.5G is replicated two times before being sent out. The following figure shows the operation of USXGMII PCS block in details.
**Figure 10.73 USXGMII PCS Datapath Components**
#### 10.8.3.4 UPHY Details
- The purpose of this document is to describe the interactions between pad and the required
supporting logic on the core. In MGBE, SERDES is implemented using UPHY (Universal PHY) logic.
##### 10.8.3.4.1 Reset
Follow the sequence of operations during initial bring-up: 1. 2. Release PHY reset. Program PLL PHY registers.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description 3. 4. 5. Enable clock sequencer. Program data PHY registers. Start lane power sequence.
##### 10.8.3.4.2 PLL Power States
The PLL provides the serial clocks for the lanes, the symbol/controller clocks, and the reference clocks for other related logic. The PLL does not observe any of the interface power states directly and it usually managed by the clock unit depending on the different activity levels: During initial boot, the PLL is placed into disabled state until the controller determines the PLL might be required. If only the resistor calibration is needed, the PLL can be placed into a Sleep state where the calibration can be done while the clock generation functions are still disabled. Once high-speed clocks are needed, the PLL should be placed into an Active state to generate the digital clocks for the core logic and the serial clocks for internal TX/RX high-speed operation.
- Table 10.36 Power Up Timing Details for PLL
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Min
- Max
- Notes
- TDISABLED-ACTIVE
- Disable to Sleep time
100 ns
- Internal reset state
- TSLEEP-ACTIVE
- Sleep to Active time
30 µs
- PLL and digital output clocks
stable.
##### 10.8.3.4.3 Lanes Power States and Rate Controls
- Power State
- Controls
The interface power state of each lane can be controlled independently. The transmitter and receiver signals can be controlled separately but it is expected that during normal operation they would be controlled together.
- Every power management sequence starts by following the protocol to place the link into an
electrical idle status. Due to the unidirectional nature, it is possible that only the Tx or Rx is placed in electrical idle. To proceed with aggressive power optimizations, Tx and Rx must achieve electrical idle status at which time the link can move the lanes into a different power state. This depends on the exit latency requirements. Due to the large current transients involved with power up and power down events, the link wakeup must be staggered across lanes to minimize the power supply requirement.
- Synchronization

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description During the power up process, the pad generates its own synchronization and reset for proper operation.
- Sequence
The following lane power up sequence is required to establish an active interface from either a power-on-reset event or wake-up event.
- Table 10.37 Power-up Sequence: Transmitter
- Name
- Sequence Order
- Event
- Signal
- Description
- Lane Enable
- Set
- IDDQ
Set IDDQ status to enable (low).
- Lane Wakeup
- Set
T/RX_SLEEP Set sleep status to enable (low).
- Wait
- Not applicable
Wait for internal bias to stabilize.
- Wait
- Internal SYNC/RESET
- Perform internal sync/reset
operations.
- Set
- TX_DATA_READY
- Set data ready (high) to prepare
transmitter for electrical idle exit.
- TX/RX Enable
- Set
T/RX_DATA_EN
- Set data enable (high) for
transmitter/receiver to send/ receive data respectively.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
**Figure 10.74 Lane Power Up Sequence**
Note: The RX_CLK is only guaranteed to be running by the end of the power up time. The timing requirements of the lane through its power up sequence are:
- Table 10.38 Power Up Timing: Lane
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Min
- Max
- Notes
- TIDDQ-SLEEP
- IDDQ inactive to SLEEP
inactive 50 ns
- Wait time before enabling
before waking up circuit.
- TSLEEP-DATAREADY
- SLEEP inactive to
- DATA_READY active
500 ns
- Lane synchronized and bias
stable.
- TSLEEP-DATAEN
- SLEEP inactive to DATA_EN
active 500 ns
- Lane synchronized and bias
stable.
- TSYNC
- Pulse width for sync/reset
event
- Allow internal logic to sync
properly.
- TDATAREADY-DATAEN
- DATA_READY active to
- DATA_EN active
50 ns
- Transmitter driver clock
enabled.

10G Ethernet Controller Functional Description
- Symbol
- Parameter
- Min
- Max
- Notes
- TDATAEN-TX
- Transmitter latency
3 symbol 4 symbol
- Latency from TX_DATA to
TXP/TXN.
- TDATAEN-RX
- Receiver latency
