# 7.7 Audio Processing Engine (APE)

### 7.7.1 Overview
- The Audio Processing Engine (APE) in the SoC can perform audio processing with minimal
supervision from the main CPUs if required. It can also split audio processing tasks with the main CPUs, in which case the APE is generally used for more latency critical processes.
- The APE contains an Audio DSP (ADSP), an internal Audio RAM (ARAM) with a dedicated Audio
Memory Controller (AMC), an Audio Hub (AHUB) equipped with multiple hardware accelerators for audio signal pre-processing and post-processing, and an Audio DMA engine (ADMA). As shown in its block diagram below, the APE comprises these major functional blocks:
- ADSP based on an Arm Cortex®-A9 version r4p1 processor with L1 and L2 Caches
- AHUB containing the audio hardware accelerators, as well as all the required audio I/O
interfaces
- Audio Client Interface
- Inter-IC Sound Interfaces (I2S)
- Digital Microphone Interfaces
- Digital Speaker Interfaces
- Mixers
- Audio Multiplexers
- Audio De-Multiplexers
- Sampling Frequency Converters
- Audio Flow Controllers
- Output Processing Engines
- Master Volume Controllers
- Arbitrary Sample Rate Converters
- Audio Sampling Rate Detectors
- Audio Direct Memory Access Interfaces
- ADMA responsible for moving data between AHUB and DRAM/ARAM
- REGDEC serving as the register interface for the ADSP and CBB to access registers in AHUB
or ADMA

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- ACONNECT functioning as an AXI-based backbone directing requests from different Masters
to the targeted Slaves in APE
- AMC providing the local memory controls for the local memory residing in APE
- AGIC providing all audio-related Interrupt controls as the name declares
- AMISC containing the configuration registers, decryption key slot registers, and timestamp
- ACAST providing address translation and the memory interface from ADSP to DRAM
- ADAST providing address translation and the memory interface from ADMA to DRAM
- AAS converting APB transactions from the CCPLEX via CBB to AXI transactions in APE
- AHSP consisting of synchronization registers for mailbox communications between ADSP
and CCPLEX
- ATKE as the time keeper of the APE, and consisting of general-purpose timers and a
watchdog timer Note that the SPDIF interface is not supported in the SoC, and references to controls for it below should be treated as reserved.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.61 APE Block Diagram**
#### 7.7.1.1 Standard and Compatibility
- I2S (Inter-IC Sound) Interface
- AMBA APB Protocol
- AMBA AXI Protocol

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.1.2 List of Reference
This chapter makes the implicit use of the following document available from Arm® based on the assumption that readers are familiar with the Arm Architecture and have access to the documents for reference. Refer to the Arm website to download the document.
- Arm Cortex®-A9 version r4p1
http://infocenter.arm.com/help/topic/com.arm.doc.100486_0401_10_en/ cortex_a9_mpcore_trm_100486_0401_10_en.pdf
#### 7.7.1.3 Glossary
- Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the Audio Processing Engine chapter.
- Term
- Definition
- AAS
- APB/AXI Shim
- ACAST
- Audio CPU AST
- ACIF
- Audio Client Interface
- ADAST
- Audio Data AST
- ADMA
- Audio Direct Memory Access
- ADSP
- Audio Digital Signal Processor
- ADX
- Audio De-Multiplexer
- AFC
- Audio Flow Controller
- AGIC
- Audio Generic Interrupt Controller
- AHC
- Audio Hub Configuration
- AHUB
- Audio Hub
- AHSP
- Audio Hardware Synchronization Primitives
- AMC
- Audio Memory Controller
- AMISC
- Audio Miscellaneous
- AMX
- Audio Multiplexer
- ARAD
- Audio Sampling Rate Detector
- ASRC
- Arbitrary Sample Rate Converter
- AST
- Address Space Translation

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Term
- Definition
- ATKE
- Audio Time Keeping Element
- AXBAR
- Audio Crossbar
- CIF
- Client Interface
- CTI
- Cross Trigger Interface
- DMIC
- Digital Microphone
- DSM
- Delta Sigma Modulation/Modulator
- I2S
- Inter-IC Sound Controller
- LIC
- Legacy Interrupt Controller
- MBDRC
- Multiband Dynamic Range Compression
- Mixer
- Device for merging input audio signals to produce a combined audio output
- MVC
- Master Volume Control
- OPE
- Output Processing Engine
- PCM
- Pulse Code Modulation/Modulator
- PDM
- Pulse Density Modulation/Modulator
- PEQ
- Parametric Equalizer
- SFC
- Sampling Frequency Converter
- SPI
- Shared Peripheral Interrupts
- TSC
- Timestamp System Counter
#### 7.7.1.4 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Address Map
- Control BackBone (CBB)
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- CPU Complex (CCPLEX)
- Hardware Synchronization Primitives
- High Definition Audio (HDA)
- Interrupt Controllers
- Introduction
- Memory SubSystem (MSS)
- Multi-Purpose I/O Pins and Pin Multiplexing (PinMux)
- Timers

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.1.5 Features
The following is highlight of the APE features.
- Arbitrary Sample Rate Conversion
- Audio Flow Control
- Audio RAM (96 KiB) by Audio Direct Memory Access
- Audio Multiplexer
- Audio De-Multiplexer
- Mixer
- Audio Output Processing
- Sampling Frequency Conversion
- Master Volume Control
- Digital Speaker (x 2)
- Digital MIC (x 4)
- Inter-IC Sound (I2S) Interface (x 6)
- Advanced Peripheral Bus (APB) for fast and directed Control/Data flow in APE and the SoC
- Advanced eXensible Interface (AXI) for fast and directed Control/Data flow in APE and the
- SoC
- Interrupts to CCPLEX (via IRQ and FIQ)
- Debug Port using CoreSight™ interface to ADSP
- Multiple Clock domains
- MC_CLK
- APE_CLK
- ADSP_CLK
- AHUB_CLK
- Multiple Resets
- APE_reset
- ADSP_reset
- Memory Controller Interface
- Interface for MMIO Requests
- TSC interface
### 7.7.2 Functional Descriptions
- The functional descriptions of the APE are detailed in the following sections based on
the functional blocks.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
#### 7.7.2.1 Audio Digital Signal Processor
The Audio Digital Signal Processor (ADSP) is an Arm Cortex®-A9 version r4p1 processor, configured with an L1 I-Cache and an L1 D-Cache each of 32 KiB, and a 128 KiB L2 I/D shared Cache, plus the Arm NEON Advanced SIMD extensions. Its main functions are:
- Algorithm-based Audio Processing
- Audio Decoding and Encoding, e.g., MP3
- Managing and Scheduling the programming of registers in Hardware Accelerators
- Managing Interrupts originated from Hardware Accelerators with Low Latency
#### 7.7.2.2 Audio Hub
The Audio Hub (AHUB) comprises a collection of hardware accelerators for audio pre-processing and post-processing and a programmable full crossbar for routing audio data across these accelerators in time and in parallel. The main purpose of AHUB is to off load most repetitive tasks that do not require central decisions from the ADSP. The AHUB also supports multiple interfaces to different audio devices in the host system, e.g., cellular baseband, audio codecs, Bluetooth modules, A/V receivers, etc. The AHUB provides six
- Inter-IC Sound (I2S) Interfaces together with two Digital Speakers (DSPK) and four Digital
Microphone (DMIC) interfaces. Audio signals routed to the HDMI interface are not going through APE, however, but delivered by the HDA interface. Refer to the High Definition Audio (HDA) chapter in this TRM for more details. Besides supporting the multiple interfaces, the AHUB is also capable of handling all necessary protocols and signal quality requirements of these audio devices. The AHUB consists of the following key modules as depicted in the diagram below.
- Inter-IC Sound Controller (I2S)
- Digital MIC Controller (DMIC)
- Mixer
- Audio Multiplexer (AMX)
- Audio De-Multiplexer (ADX)
- Sampling Frequency Converter (SFC)
- Audio Flow Controller (AFC)
- Output Processing Engine (OPE)
- Master Volume Control (MVC)
- Audio Direct Memory Access Interface (ADMA I/F)
- Audio Radio Detection (ARAD)
- Arbitrary Sample Rate Conversion (ASRC)

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
**Figure 7.62 AHUB Block Diagram**
The proprietary interface Audio Client Interface (ACIF) is employed to route audio samples through these accelerators and hence forms the fabric of AHUB. A switch called Audio Crossbar (AXBAR) is used to configure/modify the audio routing path between these accelerators. The accelerator modules and the audio routing are both configured via an AHUB Configuration (AHC) unit.
##### 7.7.2.2.1 Audio Client Interface
Audio streams are routed through the AHUB by interconnecting various modules using the ACIF. In the register programming, a receive ACIF is referred to as RxCIF, and a transmit ACIF is referred to as TxCIF.

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- ACIF Protocol
Before a session starts, both Tx and Rx clients should know the frame length by their register configurations. The frame length is determined by the number of bits in each sample and the number of channels that the audio data carries. In the case of stereo audio data with 16 bit, a frame is 32 bits long. Whenever Tx has data available to transmit to the Rx, it raises the FSYNC signal. Simultaneously the first bit of the data is put out on the data bus. The Tx should hold this FSYNC active for at least one clock but until the Rx client is ready. Similarly, it should also hold the data bus to the first bit of the frame until the Rx client is ready. When the Rx asserts ready, the Tx should lower the FSYNC at the end of that clock cycle. From the next clock cycle, Tx should transmit the rest of the frame (from the second bit onwards), one bit for each bit clock. The figure below shows the transmission ordering of two-channel 8-bit audio data. Note that the bit ordering is each channel is big-endian.
**Figure 7.63 Bit Ordering**
- Frame Length
The frame length is a product of the bit width and the number of channels in an audio stream. The register fields of the Tx and Rx clients should be programmed accordingly before the transmission starts to avoid incorrect frame parsing.
- Clocking
Since all sessions are AHUB run under an AHUB clock, the clock should be fast enough to transmit audio stream data in all sessions. If a session is used for sending 8 kHz, stereo 16-bit audio stream, the AHUB clock should be at least 256 kHz. While a faster clock is better for data transmission, it is not necessarily good for power consumption. For the typical audio application like MP3 music playing, using the clock directly from the crystal without going through PLLs is recommended. Depending on the applications, users can program the clock registers to satisfy the requirement of clock frequency. The following table shows the various minimum clock frequencies for AHUB.
- Table 7.107 AHUB Clock Frequencies
This table shows the minimum clock frequencies required for various operating modes. Higher frequencies may also be used.
- Clock Frequency
- Description
64 kHz
- Slowest clock to carry 8-bit mono voice data in 8 kHz sampling

- Audio Processing Engine (APE)
- Clock Frequency
- Description
