# 7.2 Camera Subsystem

### 7.2.1 MIPI Camera Serial Interface (CSI)
- Overview
- This section describes the SoC CSI implementation, which is based on the MIPI Alliance
Specification for CSI 2 (CSI-2), hereafter referred to as the CSI-2 specification. The MIPI Alliance Specification for CSI 2 (CSI-2) is available from the MIPI Alliance to its members at https:// www.mipi.org/. This section assumes familiarity with the CSI-2 specification and the Video Input (VI) unit (review the VI section to understand the context in which NVCSI operates). The NVCSI works with the VI unit to capture an image from a sensor, where NVCSI is a source of pixel data to VI. NVCSI works in streaming mode while VI captures the required frames using a single-shot mode of operation. All sync point generation for software is handled at VI. The delay between NVCSI and VI is negligible in software terms. NVCSI does not have a direct memory port. Instead it sends the pixel data to memory through VI. The NVCSI stack includes:
- NVCSI CORE - independent host solution, decoupled from VI in terms of software
programming and image capture. NVCSI CORE is a Host Controller client that is configured through the Host Controller
- NVCSI Control and Interface Logic (CIL) - focuses on pad brick control, packet boundary
extraction, and lane management of the NVCSI stack
- Physical Layer - four dedicated CSI pad bricks
##### 7.2.1.0.1 Standards Support
- Standard
MIPI Alliance Specification for CSI 2 (CSI-2), version 3.0, MIPI Alliance, Inc. MIPI Alliance Specification for C-PHY, version 2.0, MIPI Alliance, Inc.

- MIPI Camera Serial Interface (CSI)
- Standard
MIPI Alliance Specification for D-PHY, version 2.1, MIPI Alliance, Inc. Note: The CSI-2 Camera Controller Interface (CCI) is not included, and CSI-2 Predictor2 is not supported.
##### 7.2.1.0.2 Features
Fifth-generation NVIDIA camera solution (internal versions are NVCSI-2 3.0, VI 6.0, and ISP 6.0). Supports both the MIPI D-PHY v2.1 and the MIPI C-PHY v2.0 physical layer options.
- MIPI D-PHY supports up to 2.5 Gbits/sec per pair
- MIPI C-PHY supports up to 4.5 Gsym/s (G symbol/sec) per trio
- Based on MIPI CSI-2 v3.0 protocol stack
- Includes six pixel parsers (PP)
- Supports up to 16 virtual channels (VC) per active PP
- Data type interleave support
- Extended data types to include support for raw16/raw20
- Extended DPCM to include support for 12-10-12 coder
- Supports up to eight pixels-per-clock (PPC) throughput on the video input interface
- CSI Tx with TPG

- MIPI Camera Serial Interface (CSI)
**Figure 7.6 External Connectivity Diagram**
##### 7.2.1.0.3 NVCSI 2.0 Capabilities
NVCSI provides a combination host that supports both MIPI C-PHY and enhanced MIPI D-PHY (with lane deskew support) physical layer options in four 4-lane, six 2-lane, or six 1-lane configurations; or combinations of these. Each lane can support up to 16 virtual channels (VC) and supports data type interleaving. Virtual Channel Interleaving: VCs are defined in the CSI-2 specification and are useful when supporting multiple camera sensors. With the VC capability, a one-pixel parser (PP) can de- interleave up to 16 image streams.

- NVCSI CORE
Data Type Interleaving: In HDR line-by-line mode, the sensor can output long/short exposure lines using the same VC and a different programmable data type (DT). Frequency Target: The parallel pixel processing rate, measured in pixels-per-clock (PPC), is increased to give higher throughput and lower clock speeds. To support higher bandwidth without increasing the operating frequency, the host must process multiple pixels in one clock. NVCSI is capable of processing four PPCs when bits-per-pixel (BPP) is greater than 16, and eight PPC when BPP is less than or equal to 16.
- One PP can handle all traffic (embedded data and image data) from one-camera device,
including 16 VCs with the streaming mode.
- Supported Data Types
- RAW6/7/8/10/12/14/16/20
- RGB888/666/565/555/444
- YUV420-8bit (Legacy)
- YUV420-8bit
- YUV420-10bit
- YUV422-8bit/10bit
#### 7.2.1.1 NVCSI CORE
##### 7.2.1.1.1 Overview
NVCSI CORE handles the low-level protocol layer and the byte to pixel-unpacking format layer as defined in the CSI-2 specification. NVCSI has six Packet Parser (PP) function units, therefore it can process six individual CSI-2 streams at the same time. The inputs of the NVCSI CORE are six individual streams from NVCSI CIL.

- NVCSI CORE
**Figure 7.7 NVCSI CORE Block Diagram**
##### 7.2.1.1.2 Packet Header Footer Parser
- Each PP unit has a Packet Parser forwards the data from the NVCSI CIL to the Header Footer
Parser (HFP) directly. The Header Footer Parser:
- Extracts the information in the packet header and performs ECC/CRC checks for the packet
header. Checks if this packet is a long packet or short packet; if it is long packet, starts the long packet color Parser.
- Checks if this packet is a short packet. For SOF/EOF packets, set appropriate bits to
communicate with VI. HFP drops SOL/EOL packets.
- Performs a Payload CRC calculation for the long packet and check that the calculated CRC
with the CRC carries that in the packet footer.
- Performs a word count check for the long packet. Byte enable for the long packet Color
Parser.
- Error-Correcting Code
If there is a correctable error, the Error Correcting Code (ECC) logic corrects it and sends the corrected error to interrupt. This error is per the VC and reported to software and forwarded to VI.

- NVCSI CORE
If there is a noncorrectable error, ECC logic reports it to interrupt that this error is not per VC because the packet content is unknown. The packet is dropped and is not sent to VI. If this packet is the FS/FE short packet, VI finds a FS/FE miss error for one VC.
- Packet Header CRC
With C-PHY, there are two packet headers sent by the image sensor. In the NVCSI, the redundant packet header is dropped so VI does not get the same short packet twice. If the first-packet header CRC check passes, the second-packet header is masked, but the CRC check is still there. If the second-packet header CRC check fails, it does not affect the payload decode, but it reports a single packet header error status. If the first-packet header CRC check fails, NVCSI continues to check the second-packet header. If the second-packet header CRC also fails, the whole packet is dropped and a packet error is reported. If the second-packet header CRC check passes, the payload decode continues and reports a single packet header error.
- Table 7.7 Two-PH Check
- Condition
- PH1
- PH2
- Result
- PASS
- PASS
Send one packet to video input if it is a short packet.
- Continue to decode the payload if it is a long packet. No
error is reported.
- PASS
- FAIL
Send one packet to video input if it is a short packet. Continue to decode the payload if it is a long packet. Report single packet header error.
- FAIL
- PASS
Send one packet to video input if it is a short packet. Continue to decode the payload if it is a long packet. Report single packet header error.
- FAIL
- FAIL
Drop the packet. Report both packet header errors. If the payload size is more than the word count mentioned in PH, the excess bytes are dropped at NVCSI, and no separate error indication is generated. If payload size is less than the word count mentioned in PH, "line-short error" is communicated along with EOF. Commonly, this type of error is accompanied with an ErrCrc. Color Parser Control (PP FSM). Any LS/LE packets from the image sensor are dropped in the header parser. The PP FSM generates the LS/LE packets for each long packet (line). The PP FSM handles the following functions:
- Second PH of C-PHY Masking
- Color Parser enable signal generation to control the Color Parser
- LS/LE generation
- Short line handle
- WDT for a packet

- NVCSI CORE
- Color Parser
The Color Parser (CP) decodes the packet payload bytes to pixels. The Color Parser accumulates 4/8 pixels size of data based on DTYPE and buffers the extra bits (in column matrix) for the next cycle. It also generates 4/8 bit pixel enables.
- DPCM Decompression
- When image sensor DPCM compresses the image, it sends the compressed data with a user-
defined data type and packs the data to byte as the data type it compressed to. Software overrides the data type which tells the color parser know how to unpack it from byte to pixel and then send to the DPCM decompression unit. NVCSI supports the Predictor-1 DPCM compression defined in Annex E of CSI-2 specification. Predictor-2 is not supported. NVCSI supports the following DPCM ratios: 14–10–14 14–8–14 12–10–12 12–8–12 12–7–12 12–6–12 10–8–10 10–7–10 10–6–10
- VIMUX
The VI output mux collects different information such as SOF, EOF, VC, DTYPE, Frame number, SOL, EOL, Embedded Data, Pixel Data, Error Flags. These are generated from various blocks in NVCSI and then combines and places them on the interface bus to VI.
- Host1x Interface
NVCSI is a simplified Host1x client and it only supports the register read/write and the immediate sync point.
##### 7.2.1.1.3 Image Data Types
- Table 7.8 Supported Data Types
- Image Data (DTYPE)
- Bits per pixel (BPP)
- Input Rate in BPC (bits
per clock)
- Output Rate in PPC (pixel
per clock)
- RAW6
- RAW7

- NVCSI CORE
- Image Data (DTYPE)
- Bits per pixel (BPP)
- Input Rate in BPC (bits
per clock)
- Output Rate in PPC (pixel
per clock)
- RAW8
- RAW10
- RAW12
- RAW14
- RAW16
- RAW20
- RAW (10-6-10)
- RAW (10-7-10)
- RAW (10-8-10)
- RAW (12-6-12)
- RAW (12-7-12)
- RAW (12-8-12)
- RAW (12-10-12)
- RAW (14-10-14)
- RAW (14-8-14)
- RGB888
- RGB666
- RGB565
- RGB555
- RGB444
- YUV420-8bit (Legacy)
- YUV420-8bit
- YUV420-10bit
- YUV422-8bit
- YUV422-10bit
- Data Type Override
Data Type (DT) override means overriding the Data Type field, which is part of the incoming packet header inside the NVCSI for processing purposes only. NVCSI still sends the original DT (from incoming PH) to VI. Override is only applicable for the internal processing of pixels in NVCSI.

- NVCSI CORE
- Supporting Compressed RAW Formats
The CSI-2 specification does not allocate standard DT for compressed RAW formats (X-Y-Z), it comes under USER defined Data Types. Therefore, different sensor vendors may come up with different DT values and the NVCSI needs to unpack the pixels based on RAWY (where Y = 6, 7, 8, and 10). Incoming DT needs to override any of the RAWY values so that NVCSI can treat them like regular RAW formats without adding extra logic. The extracted pixels are fed to the DPCM decompression unit, if decompression is enabled.
- Supporting HDR Line by Line Mode
Sensors can give out Long/Short exposure lines using the same Virtual Channel (VC) and different programmable DTs. These programmable DTs are mapped to standard Data Types defined in the CSI-2 specification, so that NVCSI can understand the format while unpacking the packet for pixels.
##### 7.2.1.1.4 Clock and Reset
- NVCSI CORE receives a clock from PLLNVCSI. All parts of the PP share the same NVCSI clock
source. CAR logic provides separate clock enable control to the NVCSI CORE. NVCSI engine-level clock gating is implemented inside NVCSI CORE and NVCSI CIL.
- Clock Gating
The NVCSI CORE has two clock sources. The host controller clock does not have any SLCG. The nvcsi_clk is gated with PP enable for each PP in the NVCSI CORE. The register NVCSI_STREAM_[0-5]_SLCG_CTRL_0 controls the SLCG override.
##### 7.2.1.1.5 Line/Frame CRC Check
CSI protocol natively supports the line CRC check for all types included in the embedded line packets and pixel line packets. NVCSI follows the CSI specification v2.0 to implement the standard packet level CRC check. NVCSI only processes the packet level (line level) information. It does not have any view of the frame. VI or software handles the Frame CRC. When line CRC error is detected, a fault interrupt line asserts to the hardware safety manager (HSM). The line CRC error can be set to correctable fault or uncorrectable fault by safety software. The line CRC error means that there is one or more pixels incorrect in a line. Hardware reset is not required for this error if it is just a transient error in NVCSI and the next frame is correct from sensor, it can recover automatically. Software can set a threshold of this CRC error. If the CRC error continues to occur on multiple lines, this may indicate a problem in the receiver or in the transmission lines and a hardware reset of NVCSI may be required. This error status is also sent to VI, and the safety software can get error status from either the NVCSI fault or VI notifies.

- NVCSI CORE
If all the lines in one frame pass the line CRC check, it means that the frame matches the CRC. NVCSI reports the line CRC check result, but it does not know if the expected lines are received from the sensor. VI has the capability to check the frame integrity and NVCSI/VI cowork to check the frame CRC.
- Performance
The system level NVCSI maximum bandwidth is listed in the following table.
- Table 7.9 System Level Peak Bandwidth
- PHY Mode
- Target
- VLV
- LV
- SV
D-PHY
- BW/Lane
