# 7.9 Pixel Memory Formats

### 7.9.1 Functional Description
The following outlines the memory tiling formats and the pixel formats that may be produced and
#### 7.9.1.1 Tiling Formats
This SoC supports the memory formats described in the following section. MSS clients can support block linear formats and pitch-linear formats. Refer to the description of each device for more details on the modes supported. Pitch linear arranges pixels in raster array order, and is useful for clients that interact directly or indirectly with the CPU or that make horizontal (or linear) accesses to memory.

- Pixel Memory Formats
Block linear is a tiled format optimized for clients that access regions of pixels across more than one line.
- Table 7.117 Client Shared Tiling Formats
- Format
- Status
- Used for
- Description
- Pitch Linear
- Supported by
some clients
- Software-compatibility, clients that
linearly access memory
- Simple array ordering
- Block linear 16Bx2 with
- TEGRA RAW or XBAR RAW
sector ordering
- Supported by
all clients
- GPU color surfaces, clients that access
memory in blocks or vertically
- Square DRAM page
arrangement (blocks) with folded atoms The tiling format describes the organization of bytes within a surface. The tiling formats convert an (x, y) offset of a sample in a surface to a linear address. To do the translation, they require additional information about the surface.
- Parame
ter
- Use
d by
- Description
- Values
- Minimum Alignment1
- Layout
- All
- Surface layout
- PITCH, BLOCKLINEAR
- Not Applicable
- Base
- Address
- Pitch
- Starting address
of surface, in bytes 40-bit virtual address -or- 40-bit physical address
- Not Applicable
64 B (general) 128 B (GPU) 256 B (NVENC, OFA, VIC) 512 B (display)
- Pitch
- Pitch
- Line-to-line
stride in bytes
- Large enough for at least 4,096 pixels in bytes
(some clients may support larger values) 64 B (general) 128 B (GPU, display) 256 B (NVENC, OFA, display cursor) up to 256 B (VIC)
- Base
- Address
- Block
- Linea
r
- Starting address
of surface, in bytes 40-bit virtual address -or- 40-bit physical address 512 B (general) 1 KB (display)
- Block
- Width
- Block
- Linea
r
- Width of block in
- GOBs
- ONE_GOB
(this is the only setting supported)
- Not applicable
- Block
- Height
- Block
- Linea
r
- Height of block
in GOBs [ONE_GOB, THIRTYTWO_GOBS] (SIXTEEN_GOBS is the normal setting, but
- TWO_GOBS may be needed for display
surfaces with rotation disabled.
- Not applicable
- Block
- Depth
- Block
- Linea
r
- Depth of block in
- GOBs
[ONE_GOB, THIRTYTWO_GOBS] (GPU supports values greater than ONE_GOB)
- Not applicable
- Width
- Block
- Linea
r
- Width of surface
in samples [1, 4096] samples (some clients may support larger values)
- One sample
1. These are minimum alignments. Larger alignments are sometimes needed for performance. See the recommendations for software in the Software Guidelines section.

- Pixel Memory Formats
2. The pitch alignment restrictions for VIC depend on its cache line shape: 256 Bx1: 256 B, 128Bx2: 128 B, otherwise: 64 B.
- The NVIDIA Ampere Architecture 3D class supported by the GPU has a full list of surface
parameter ranges that, in many cases, exceed those in this table. For GPU surfaces that are larger than a SoC client can support, all manipulation of the surface must be done on the GPU. Displayable surfaces are limited to the maximum 8K image width supported by display.
#### 7.9.1.2 DRAM Organization
Although the tiling equations produce byte addresses, the MC interfaces operate in terms of atoms, which are the smallest possible unit of addressable DRAM memory. This SoC uses 32-byte atom with performance benefits when using request size of 64 bytes or larger. This SoC has a multichannel memory system with a channel interleave.
- The SoC has a multichannel memory system with a channel interleave of 512 B or 1 KB. The
interleave is global memory system configuration. Memory locations within one of these aligned 512 B or 1 KB address blocks are stored in the same DRAM page in the same DRAM channel. In order to achieve frequent utilization of the DRAMs, clients must issue enough requests within a DRAM page to hide precharges and activates for pages in other DRAM banks. This means that a given client must issue ~128 B within a given 512 B or 1 KB page before moving to another. The purpose of most of the tiling formats is to maximize the number of requests in one page to increase DRAM utilization. In physically contiguous memory (carveout), or with 64 KB pages, channel, and bank swizzling equations ensure that channels and banks are evenly interleaved, so work is distributed over channels and bank conflicts are rare. With 4 KB dynamically allocated pages, a given 4 KB page only contains data from four channels. To prevent ruinous channel camping (worst-case 1/16 DRAM bandwidth), memory allocation must use page coloring. In page coloring, each 4 KB physical page is assigned a “color” based on the channels and banks it contains. For example, a “red” page might have channels 0-3 and bank 0, while a “green” page might have channels 4-7 and bank 5. The page table mapping should map physical pages of the appropriate color to virtual pages to interleave channels and banks optimally. If page coloring is not feasible, clients should take advantage of the fact that there are no channel conflicts within a single 4 KB virtual memory page. However, be aware that adjacent pages could reference the same four pages, potential-limiting bandwidth to 1/4 of the theoretical bandwidth.
- Certain clients can take advantage of the memory system’s subpartition feature to read or
write noncontiguous pairs of 32B subpackets, rather than being restricted to a 64B DRAM atom. See the Sub-Partitions section for details.

- Pixel Memory Formats
#### 7.9.1.3 Block Linear
The block linear formats map batches of contiguous addresses into rectangular blocks, and tile these blocks linearly. Blocking serves two purposes: 1.
- It maps a DRAM page into a rectangular region, rather than into a one-pixel-tall strip, to
capture locality in a graphics geometry stream or other 2D-oriented client, such as an MPEG encoder or decoder. It is possible to interleave channels and banks in x and y in a predictable way, minimizing channel camping and bank conflicts over a large region. 2.
- Blocks themselves are arranged from GOBs, which are Groups of Bytes. An NVIDIA Ampere
Architecture GOB is 512 bytes arranged as 64x8 bytes. GOBs are stacked vertically to form a block. An additional surface parameter called the block height controls the number of GOBs stacked vertically in a block. The recommended block height for most buffers is 16 GOBs (128 lines). This supports 8x8 bank interleaving. For buffers, which linear display access is more important than access by GPU, VIC, or other block-oriented engine, block height may be set to one GOB, providing more locality for the display client.
**Figure 7.82 Example Block with block_height = 2**
Blocks are arranged horizontally into a Row of Blocks (ROBs) to fill out the surface to the width value (or slightly beyond, if the width is not a multiple of the 64-Byte block width). Upper address bit swizzling in the bank swizzling algorithm generally makes it unnecessary to pad the surface width further.

- Pixel Memory Formats
**Figure 7.83 Block Linear Surfaces**
The tiling equations for block linear start out by computing the GOB address as follows:
- GOB_address = base_address +
(y / (8 * block_height)) * 512 * block_height * image_width_in_gobs + (x * bytes_per_pixel / 64) * 512 * block_height + (y % (8 * block_height) / 8) * 512 Where: image_width_in_gobs = ceiling(image_width * bytes_per_pixel / 64) The individual pixel byte address is then determined from the GOB address based on the sector packing and sector ordering.
- The image width determines Image_width_in_gobs. There is no additional ‘pitch’ parameter,
as in legacy tiling.
##### 7.9.1.3.1 Sector Packing
- Sector packing is the arrangement of bytes within a 32-Byte sector. Sector ordering is the
arrangement of sectors within a GOB. All buffers that are shared between the clients use 16 Byte × 2 sector packing: the 32 Byte within a sector are arranged as two 16B lines on top of each other. (The GPU supports KINDs with other packing, but these are private to the GPU.)

- Pixel Memory Formats
The following diagram represents a view of a TEGRA RAW block-linear GOB in pixel space. Each numbered box represents a byte, and each number represents the address offset of that byte from the base address of the GOB. The green outline denotes the set of sectors that make up a 64B memory access. As an example of how to interpret the following diagram, assuming 4-bytes per pixel, the first eight pixels in row 0 within the GOB are stored in bytes 00-0F and 20-2F. That is, the first, second, third, fourth pixels are stored in bytes 00-03, 04-07, 08-0B, 0C-0F respectively, and fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth pixels are stored in bytes 20-23, 24-27, 28-2B, 2C-2F respectively in a 64 byte contiguous memory access. The ninth pixel in row 0 within the GOB is stored in bytes 100-103 requiring a separate memory access.
**Figure 7.84 Block Linear (GPU 16Bx2 kind with TEGRA_RAW Sector Ordering).**
The following equations are used for address calculation using SoC and XBAR RAW sector ordering:
- TEGRA RAW_Address = GOB_address + ((x*bytes_per_pixel%64)/32)*256 + ((y%8)/2)*64 +
((x*bytes_per_pixel%32)/16)*32 + (y%2)*16 + (x*bytes_per_pixel%16)
- XBAR RAW_Address = GOB_address + ((x*bytes_per_pixel%64)/32)*256 + ((y%8)/4)*128 +
((x*bytes_per_pixel%32)/16)*64 + (y%4)*16 + (x*bytes_per_pixel%16)
##### 7.9.1.3.2 Sector Ordering
The sector ordering in this format reduces the amount of buffering required for line storage by
- ISP. It also reduces the amount of instantaneous bandwidth required by ISP because of the
reduction in the number of lines that are written to memory. Support for block linear sector ordering shown in the following figure is as follows: Display supports XBAR_RAW sector ordering. All other MSS clients supporting block linear format will use TEGRA RAW sector ordering. Memory-client address bit 39 will be used to indicate if order swizzling is required (1=Swizzle XBAR RAW <-> TEGRA RAW sector order, 0=data passes through unswizzled). GPU upper PTE bit will be used to indicate if order swizzling is required (1=Swizzle XBAR RAW <-> TEGRA RAW sector order, 0=data passes through unswizzled).

- Pixel Memory Formats
**Figure 7.85 GOB Subpacket Mapping**
Clients that make more vertically oriented accesses can take advantage of the subpartition feature described in the next section.
#### 7.9.1.4 Sub-Partitions
The 64-bit DRAM channel can be divided into two subpartitions with DQ[31:0] forming subpartition A and DQ[63:32] forming subpartition B. Each 64-Byte atom is divided into two sectors of 32 Bytes. One sector contains bytes 0 – 31 while the other contains bytes 32 – 63. The sectors are mapped to subpartitions by the MCCIF using
- PA[8]^PA[6]^PA[5]. This produces a checkerboard mapping of the physical address space to
subpartitions, which permits both subpartitions to be used whether the primitive is oriented horizontally or vertically. The checkerboard is mirrored between tiles in a GOB, which is important when the surface is compressed.
**Figure 7.86 Address to Sub-Partition Mapping**
Clients that use the subpartition feature can access two noncontiguous sectors targeting the same GOB in a single request provided they do not target the same subpartition. A common use for this feature is to change the shape of a 64-Byte request from 32 Byte × 2 (without subpartitions) to 16 Byte × 4 (using subpartitions). This is the preferred fetch footprint for the GPU texture cache and is used by display when scanning out vertically. Clients that do not want to use the subpartition feature set both copies of PA[8:5] to the same value.

- Pixel Memory Formats
#### 7.9.1.5 Hardware Support
Clients implement registers in their module to control the parameters (base address, kind, width or pitch, and block height) required for tiling control of each surface supported by the client. For planar and semiplanar surfaces, in which a single image is composed of multiple buffers or planes, independent parameters should be provided for each buffer or plane.
##### 7.9.1.5.1 Pixel Storage Registers
Clients should make memory fetches that are integral multiples of DRAM atoms to avoid wasting bandwidth. If fetches can extend beyond the active buffer size (in width or height), the buffer must be padded to accommodate the maximum-sized fetch. For pitch-linear surfaces, this may mean padding the pitch and padding the number of lines in the buffer. For block linear surfaces (in rare instances), this may mean adding an additional row of blocks at the bottom of the buffer. For block linear surfaces, there is no pitch parameter separate from surface width. To avoid making data fetches outside a buffer’s allocated width, units should generally not make requests that are wider than 64B (the block width).
#### 7.9.1.6 Pixel Format Naming
- Pixel format naming conventions apply to color surfaces for camera, gaming, and video
applications. Color formats listed in this section cover both SoC and dGPU color surfaces.
##### 7.9.1.6.1 Naming Conventions
Pixel format naming conventions continue to use the naming style adopted in previous chips. They are based on the following set of rules:
- All format names begin T_ (T followed by underscore) to distinguish them from other format
name conventions. If the number of bits per pixel is not a power of 2, use an Array of Words name. Example: T_R8_G8_B8. 1. 2.
- Write all the components in increasing address order from left to right with an underscore
between each component. The name lists the bits in this order. A set of attributes describes each component: a. b. a Component letter (refer to the Pixel Naming Component Letters table). a decimal number (the number of bits in the component–always a multiple of 8) an optional Type Suffix (refer to the Pixel Naming Type Suffixes table) i. ii. iii. Otherwise, if the number of bits per pixel is a power of 2, use a Single Word name. Example: T_A8B8G8R8, T_R5G6B5. 3.

- Pixel Memory Formats
a. b. Collect all the components in the pixel into a single word using little endian order. Arrange the components from left to right in MSB to LSB order. The name lists the bits in this order. A set of attributes describes each component: c. i. a Component letter (refer to the Pixel Naming Component Letters table). a decimal number (the number of bits in the component) an optional type suffix (refer to the Pixel Naming Type Suffixes table) ii. iii. 4. Identify the type: a.
- Identify the type of each component, ignoring any S and X components. Applicable types
are listed in the Pixel Naming Type Suffixes table. If all the (non-ignored) types are Unsigned Normalized, then, do not use any type suffix. Example: T_A8B8G8R8.
- Else if all the (non-ignored) types use the same type (not Unsigned Normalized), then add
to the end of the format name an underscore and a type suffix. This suffix applies to all the components (except S and X components). Example: T_A8B8G8R8_I.
- Else there are different types. Add a type suffix (without an underscore) to each
component identifier (following the number of bits). Do not add a type identifier to any S or X or Unsigned Normalized components. Do not add an underscore or type identifier to the end of the format name. Example: T_A2B10FG10FR10F. b. c. d. 5. Special cases: a. T_E5B9G9R9_F - each RGB component is a mantissa and E is a shared exponent, which is applied to each component. The result is three floating point components (RGB).
- Packed YUV formats like T_V8_Y8__U8_Y8 and T_B8_G8__R8_G8, which have a repeated
component: This format represents two pixels. The double underscore is the separator between the two pixels. The repeated component (Y/G) is unique to each pixel. Both pixels share the other components (U/V/R/B). Use Array of Words naming for these (see Step 2)). Bayer formats (RAW10, RAW12, RAW16, RAW20). Compressed formats (ETC, DXT, LATC, EAC).
- Append the “N” delimiter to indicate chroma subsampling (that is, N444, N422, N422R,
N420). For example, T_U8V8_N420 indicates a U8V8 plane with 4:2:0 chroma subsampling). b. c. d. e. 6. Multi-Pixel Packing Formats: If more than one pixel is described by a single word, which is a power-of-two bits, then use a word-oriented name. Example: T_X2Lc10Lb10La10. a. b. Collect all the components in the pixel into a single word using little endian order. Arrange the components from left to right in MSB to LSB order. The name lists the bits in this order: c. i. a Component letter (refer to the Pixel Naming Component Letters table). a lowercase pixel-ordering identifier “a”, “b”, “c”, and so on, where “a” is the “first” logic pixel in the group, “b” is the second, “c” is the third, and so on. For components that are shared by all pixels in the group, or X components (that are not part of any pixel), the pixel-ordering identifier is omitted. For components that are shared by more than one, but not all, pixels in the group, multiple pixel order-identifying letters are to be used. a decimal number (the number of bits in the component) ii. iii.

- Pixel Memory Formats
iv. an optional type suffix (refer to the Pixel Naming Type Suffixes table). 7. Multiple Plane Formats: a.
- Some units may use a different color format name for each plane. In that case, the color
format names are as described above (for example, T_Y8, T_U8, T_V8, T_V8U8). Other units may use a single color format name describing all planes in a single name. In this case, the name has one or more triple underscores. The triple underscore separates one plane from the next. i.
- Example: T_Y8___V8U8_N420: Indicates a semiplanar YUV with T_Y8 in the first plane, and
T_V8U8 in the second plane, with 4:2:0 chroma subsampling.
- Example: T_Y8___U8___V8_N420: Indicates a fully planar YUV with T_Y8 in the first plane,
T_U8 in the second plane, and T_V8 in the third plane, with 4:2:0 chroma subsampling. ii. MSS clients are required to support YCbCr Rec.601 formats (unsigned 8-bit values). But for brevity, Cb and Cr components are represented with U and V, respectively (for example, AYUV represents a format containing A, Y, Cb, Cr components). This does not imply that “YUV” formats use Y, U, V components (signed 8-bit values with a 128 offset).
- Table 7.118 Pixel Naming Component Letters
- Component Letter
- Description
R
- Red
G
- Green
B
- Blue
A
- Alpha
L
- Luma (copy to R, G, and B. Copy from R.)
Y
- Luminance for YCbCr601 (YUV)
U
- Cb for YCbCr601 (YUV)
V
- Cr for YCbCr601 (YUV)
N
- Delimiter for indicating chroma subsampling (N444, N422, N422R, N420)
P
- Palette index
C
- Coverage (or other special use)
S
- Stencil (always Unsigned Integer)
Z
- Depth value
E
- Shared exponent. When this component is present, all the other
components are mantissas to which this exponent is applied. X
- Unused (ignored on read)

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Table 7.119 Pixel Naming Type Suffixes
- Type Suffix
- Description
<none>
- Unsigned Normalized
- SN
- Signed Normalized
I
- Signed Integer
- UI
- Unsigned Integer
- NL
- Nonlinear Z Format
F
- Float
- LN
- Unsigned Normalized sRGB colorspace (L=log)
- MSAA
Multisample (special case–only used with S8 (T_S8_MSAA)).
- N444
No subsampling of chroma (chroma and luma are full resolution).
- N422
- Subsampled chroma in 422 (half res horizontal, full res vertical)
- N422R
- Subsampled chroma in 420R (full res horizontal, half res vertical)
- N420
- Subsampled chroma in 420 (half res horizontal, half res vertical)
- TRUE
- Uses true YUV (not YCbCr)
##### 7.9.1.6.2 Pixel Format Bit Patterns
The following tables describe the bit patterns associated with the pixel formats supported. The maximum pixel size supported by the SoC's engines is 128 bits.
##### 7.9.1.6.3 Array of Words Pixel Formats
Array of Words type pixel formats lists each component in increasing address order from left to right.
**Figure 7.87 T_B8_G8_R8**

- Pixel Memory Formats
**Figure 7.88 T_R16_G16_B16_I**
- Table 7.120 Array of Words Pixel Formats
- Software Name
- Hardware
- Name
- Bit pattern
(Left to Right: LS-Byte to MS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per
- Byte)
T_R8_G8_B8
- RRRRRRRR GGGGGGGG BBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_R8_G8_B8
T_B8_G8_R8
- BBBBBBBB GGGGGGGG RRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_B8_G8_R8
T_R8_G8_B8_SN
- RRRRRRRR GGGGGGGG BBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_R8_G
8_B8 T_R8_G8_B8_UI
- RRRRRRRR GGGGGGGG BBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_Uint_R8_G8_
- B8
T_R8_G8_B8_I
- RRRRRRRR GGGGGGGG BBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_Int_R8_G8_B
T_Y8_U8_V8
- YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Y8_U8_V8
T_Y8_V8_U8
- YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_Y8_V8_U8
T_U8_Y8_V8
- UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_U8_Y8_V8
T_V8_Y8_U8
- VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_V8_Y8_U8
T_U8_V8_Y8
- UUUUUUUU VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_U8_V8_Y8
T_V8_U8_Y8
- VVVVVVVV UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_V8_U8_Y8
T_Y8_U8_V8_TRU E
- YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Y8_U8_V8
T_Y8_V8_U8_TRU E
- YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_Y8_V8_U8
T_U8_Y8_V8_TRU E
- UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_U8_Y8_V8
T_V8_Y8_U8_TRU E
- VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_V8_Y8_U8
T_U8_V8_Y8_TRU E
- UUUUUUUU VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_U8_V8_Y8
T_V8_U8_Y8_TRU E
- VVVVVVVV UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_V8_U8_Y8

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Software Name
- Hardware
- Name
- Bit pattern
(Left to Right: LS-Byte to MS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per
- Byte)
T_R16_G16_B16_ I
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_Int_R16_G16
_B16 T_R16_G16_B16_
- UI
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_Uint_R16_G1
6_B16 T_R32_G32_B32
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_R32_G32_B3
T_R32_G32_B32_ I
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_Int_R32_G32
_B32 T_R32_G32_B32_
- UI
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_Uint_R32_G3
2_B32
##### 7.9.1.6.4 Single Word Pixel Formats
Single Word type pixel formats, which use a single word to list all components in a single pixel, list components from left to right. It starts from the component in the most significant bit position and ends with the component in the least significant bit position. Little endian byte order is assumed when storing words into memory bytes.
**Figure 7.89 T_A8B8G8R8**
- Table 7.121 Single Word Pixel Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_A8
- AAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_A8
T_L8
- LLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_L8
T_L4A4
- LLLLAAAA
- NvColorFormat_L4A4
T_A4L4
- AAAALLLL
- NvColorFormat_A4L4

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_G4R4
- GGGGRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G4R4
T_R8
- RRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_R8
T_R8_SN
- RRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_R8
T_R3G3B2
- RRRGGGBB
- NvColorFormat_R3G3B2
T_A8R8
- AAAAAAAARRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A8R8
T_A8L8
- AAAAAAAALLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_A8L8
T_L8A8
- LLLLLLLLAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_L8A8
T_R8G8
- RRRRRRRRGGGGGGGG
- NvColorFormat_R8G8
T_G8R8
- GGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G8R8
T_G8R8_SN
- GGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_G8R8
T_R6G5B5
- RRRRRRGGGGGBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_R6G5B5
T_R5G6B5
- RRRRRGGGGGGBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_R5G6B5
T_B5G6R5
- BBBBBGGGGGGRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_B5G6R5
T_B6G5R5
- BBBBBBGGGGGRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_B6G5R5
T_R5G5B6
- RRRRRGGGGGBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_B6G5R5
T_R5G5B5A1
- RRRRRGGGGGBBBBBA
- NvColorFormat_R5G5B5A1
T_B5G5R5A1
- BBBBBGGGGGRRRRRA
- NvColorFormat_B5G5R5A1
T_A1B5G5R5
- ABBBBBGGGGGRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A1B5G5R5
T_A1R5G5B5
- ARRRRRGGGGGBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_A1R5G5B5
T_R1G5B5A5
- RGGGGGBBBBBAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_R1G5B5A5
T_B5G5R1A5
- BBBBBGGGGGRAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_B5G5R1A5
T_A5B5G5R1
- AAAAABBBBBGGGGGR
- NvColorFormat_A5G5B5R1
T_A5R1G5B5
- AAAAARGGGGGBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_A5R1G5B5
T_R5G5B5X1
- RRRRRGGGGGBBBBBX
- NvColorFormat_R5G5B5X1
T_B5G5R5X1
- BBBBBGGGGGRRRRRX
- NvColorFormat_B5G5R5X1
T_X1B5G5R5
- XBBBBBGGGGGRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_X1B5G5R5
T_X1R5G5B5
- XRRRRRGGGGGBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_X1R5G5B5
T_R4G4B4A4
- RRRRGGGGBBBBAAAA
- NvColorFormat_R4G4B4A4
T_B4G4R4A4
- BBBBGGGGRRRRAAAA
- NvColorFormat_B4G4R4A4

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_A4B4G4R4
- AAAABBBBGGGGRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A4B4G4R4
T_A4R4G4B4
- AAAARRRRGGGGBBBB
- NvColorFormat_A4R4G4B4
T_G16R16
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G16R16
T_G16R16_SN
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_G16R16
T_A8B8G8R8
- AAAAAAAABBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A8B8G8R8
T_A8R8G8B8
- AAAAAAAARRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_A8R8G8B8
T_B8G8R8A8
- BBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_B8G8R8A8
T_G8B8G8R8
- GGGGGGGGBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G8B8G8R8
T_B8G8R8G8
- BBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGG
- NvColorFormat_B8G8R8G8
T_R8G8B8A8
- RRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBBAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_R8G8B8A8
T_A8B8G8R8_SN
- AAAAAAAABBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_A8B8G8
- R8
T_X8B8G8R8
- XXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_X8B8G8R8
T_X8R8G8B8
- XXXXXXXXRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_X8R8G8B8
T_B8G8R8X8
- BBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRXXXXXXXX
- NvColorFormat_B8G8R8X8
T_R8G8B8X8
- RRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBBXXXXXXXX
- NvColorFormat_R8G8B8X8
T_X8B8G8R8_LN
- XXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_X8B8G8R8
T_X8B8G8R8_SN
- XXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_X8B8G8
- R8
T_X8R8G8B8_LN
- XXXXXXXXRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_X8R8G8B8
T_A2B10G10R10
- AABBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A2B10G10R10
T_A2R10G10B10
- AARRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_A2R10G10B10
T_B10G10R10A2
- BBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRAA
- NvColorFormat_B10G10R10A2
T_R10G10B10A2
- RRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBBBBAA
- NvColorFormat_R10G10B10A2
T_A2Y10U10V10
- AAYYYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_A2Y10U10V10
T_V10U10Y10A2
- VVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYYYYAA
- NvColorFormat_V10U10Y10A2
T_X16B16G16R16
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_X16B16G16R16
T_A16B16G16R16
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A16B16G16R16
T_A16
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_A16

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_A16_F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Float_A16
T_L16
- LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_L16
T_L16_F
- LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_Float_L16
T_L16_I
- LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_Int_L16
T_R10
- RRRRRRRRRR000000
- NvColorFormat_R10
T_R12
- RRRRRRRRRRRR0000
- NvColorFormat_R12
T_R8_RJ_ISP 00000000RRRRRRRR
- Bayer RAW8 right justified
T_R10_RJ_ISP 000000RRRRRRRRRR
- Bayer RAW10 right justified
T_R12_RJ_ISP 0000RRRRRRRRRRRR
- Bayer RAW12 right justified
T_R14_RJ_ISP 00RRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- Bayer RAW14 right justified
T_R20_RJ_ISP 000000000000RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- Bayer RAW20 right justified
T_R24_RJ_ISP 00000000RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- Bayer RAW24 right justified
T_R16
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_R16
T_R16_F
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_R16
T_R16_I
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_R16
T_R16_SN
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_R16
T_R16_UI
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_R16
T_A16L16_F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAALLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_Float_A16L16
T_R24
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_R32
T_A32_F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Float_A32
T_L32_F
- LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_Float_L32
T_L32_I
- LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_Int_L32
T_L32_UI
- LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL
- NvColorFormat_UInt_L32
T_R32
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_ R32
T_R32_F
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_R32
T_G16R16_F
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_G16R16
T_E5B9G9R9_F
- EEEEEBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_E5B9G9R
T_B10G11R11_F
- BBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_B10G11R

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_R11G11B10_F
- RRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_Float_R11G11B
T_A2B10FG10FR10 F
- AABBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A2B10FG10FR1
0F T_X16B16G16R16_ F
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_X16B16G
16R16 T_A16B16G16R16_ F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_A16B16G
16R16 T_G32R32_F
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRR
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_G32R32
T_X32B32G32R32_ F
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBBBBB
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_X32B32G
32R32 T_A32B32G32R32_ F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBB
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_A32B32G
32R32 T_S8
- SSSSSSSS
- NvColorFormat_S8
T_Z16
- ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
- NvColorFormat_Z16
T_Z16_NL
- ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
- NvColorFormat_Z16
T_G24R8
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G24R8
T_G8R24
- GGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G8R24
T_Z24X8
- ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZXXXXXXXX
- NvColorFormat_Z24X8
T_Z24S8
- ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZSSSSSSSS
- NvColorFormat_Z24S8
T_X8Z24
- XXXXXXXXZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
- NvColorFormat_X8Z24
T_S8Z24
- SSSSSSSSZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
- NvColorFormat_S8Z24
T_Z32_F
- ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
- NvColorFormat_Float_Z32
T_X24S8Z32_F
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSSSSSSSSZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
- ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
- NvColorFormat_Float_X24S8Z32
T_R8_UI
- RRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_R8
T_R8_I
- RRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_R8
T_R16_UI
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_R16
T_R16_I
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_R16
T_R16_SN
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_R16
T_R16_ISP
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- RAW ISP Floating Point Format

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_R16_X_ISP20
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- RAW ISP encoded float/20-bit
fixed T_R16_X_ISP24
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- RAW ISP encoded float/24-bit
fixed T_G8R8_UI
- GGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_G8R8
T_G8R8_I
- GGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_G8R8
T_R32_UI
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_R32
T_R32_I
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_R32
T_G16R16
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G16R16
T_G16R16_F
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_G16R16
T_G16R16_I
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_G16R16
T_G16R16_UI
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_G16R16
T_G16R16_SN
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_G16R16
T_A16R16
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A16R16
T_A16R16_F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_A16R16
T_A2B10G10R10_U I
- AABBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_A2B10G10
- R10
T_A8B8LNG8LNR8L N
- AAAAAAAABBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A8B8LNG8LNR8
- LN
T_A8R8LNG8LNB8L N
- AAAAAAAARRRRRRRRGGGGGGGGBBBBBBBB
- NvColorFormat_A8R8LNG8LNB8
- LN
T_A8B8G8R8_I
- AAAAAAAABBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_A8B8G8R8
T_A8B8G8R8_UI
- AAAAAAAABBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_A8B8G8R8
T_G32R32
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRR
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G32R32
T_G32R32_I
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRR
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_G32R32
T_G32R32_UI
- GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRR
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_G32R32
T_A32R32_F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRR
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_A32R32
T_B24G8R32_F
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRR
- RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Float_B24G8R3
T_A16B16G16R16_I
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_A16B16G16
- R16

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_A16B16G16R16_
- UI
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_A16B16G1
6R16 T_A16B16G16R16_
- SN
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_SNorm_A16B16
- G16R16
T_A16B16G16R16_
- NVB
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_NVBias_A16B16
- G16R16
T_X16B16G16R16_I
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_X16B16G16
- R16
T_X16B16G16R16_
- UI
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_X16B16G1
6R16 T_A16Y16U16V16
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- UUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Uint_A16Y16U1
6V16 T_V16U16Y16A16
- VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- YYYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Uint_V16U16Y1
6A16 T_V16U16Y16A16_I
- VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- YYYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Int_V16U16Y16
- A16
T_A16Y16U16V16_ F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- UUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Float_A16Y16U
16V16 T_A16Y16U16V16_I
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- UUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Int_A16Y16U16
- V16
T_A16Y16U16V16_I
- SP
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- UUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- ISP-specific YUV–validation only
T_A32Y32U32V32_ F
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- UUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Float_A32Y32U
32V32 T_A32B32G32R32
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBB
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_A32B32G32R32
T_A32B32G32R32_I
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBB
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_A32B32G32
- R32
T_A32B32G32R32_
- UI
- AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAABBBBBBBBBBBB
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_A32B32G3
2R32 T_X32B32G32R32_I
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBBBBB
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Int_X32B32G32
- R32
T_X32B32G32R32_
- UI
- XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXBBBBBBBBBBBB
- BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
- GGGGGGGGGGRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_Uint_X32B32G3
2R32 T_A8Y8U8V8
- AAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_A8Y8U8V8

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit
to ls-bit per Byte)
- Software Name
T_A8Y8V8U8
- AAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_A8Y8V8U8
T_A8U8V8Y8
- AAAAAAAAUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVYYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_A8U8V8Y8
T_A8V8U8Y8
- AAAAAAAAVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_A8V8U8Y8
T_Y8U8V8A8
- YYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Y8U8V8A8
T_Y8V8U8A8
- YYYYYYYYVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Y8V8U8A8
T_U8V8Y8A8
- UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVYYYYYYYYAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_U8V8Y8A8
T_V8U8Y8A8
- VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYYAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_V8U8Y8A8
T_A8Y8U8V8_TRUE
- AAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_A8Y8U8V8
T_A8Y8V8U8_TRUE
- AAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_A8Y8V8U8
T_A8U8V8Y8_TRUE
- AAAAAAAAUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVYYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_A8U8V8Y8
T_A8V8U8Y8_TRUE
- AAAAAAAAVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_A8V8U8Y8
T_Y8U8V8A8_TRUE
- YYYYYYYYUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Y8U8V8A8
T_Y8V8U8A8_TRUE
- YYYYYYYYVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_Y8V8U8A8
T_U8V8Y8A8_TRUE
- UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVYYYYYYYYAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_U8V8Y8A8
T_V8U8Y8A8_TRUE
- VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYYAAAAAAAA
- NvColorFormat_V8U8Y8A8
T_U8V8
- UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_U8V8
T_V8U8
- VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_U8_V8
T_U8V8_TRUE
- UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_U8V8
T_V8U8_TRUE
- VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_U8_V8
T_Y8
- YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_Y8
T_U8
- UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_U8
T_V8
- VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_V8
T_Y8_TRUE
- YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_Y8
T_U8_TRUE
- UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_U8
T_V8_TRUE
- VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_V8
T_P8
- PPPPPPPP
- NvColorFormat_I8
T_A4P4
- AAAAPPPP
- NvColorFormat_A4I4
T_A8P8
- AAAAAAAAPPPPPPPP
- NvColorFormat_A8I8

- Pixel Memory Formats
##### 7.9.1.6.5 Miscellaneous Pixel Formats
- Table 7.122 Miscellaneous Pixel Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern (Left to Right: LS-Word to
- MS-Word, ms-bit to ls-bit per Word)
- Software Name
T_S8_MSAA
- SSSSSSSS
T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8
- UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_U8_Y8__V8_Y8 or
- NvColorFormat_UYVY
T_V8_Y8__U8_Y8
- VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_V8_Y8__U8_Y8 or
- NvColorFormat_VYUY
T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8
- YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Y8_U8__Y8_V8 or
- NvColorFormat_YUYV
T_Y8_V8__Y8_U8
- YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_Y8_V8__Y8_U8 or
- NvColorFormat_YVYU
T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8_TRU E
- UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_U8_Y8__V8_Y8
T_V8_Y8__U8_Y8_TRU E
- VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY
- NvColorFormat_V8_Y8__U8_Y8
T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8_TRU E
- YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV
- NvColorFormat_Y8_U8__Y8_V8
T_Y8_V8__Y8_U8_TRU E
- YYYYYYYY VVVVVVVV YYYYYYYY UUUUUUUU
- NvColorFormat_Y8_V8__Y8_U8
T_B8_G8__R8_G8
- BBBBBBBB GGGGGGGG RRRRRRRR
- GGGGGGGG
- NvColorFormat_B8_G8__R8_G8
T_G8_B8__G8_R8
- GGGGGGGG BBBBBBBB GGGGGGGG
- RRRRRRRR
- NvColorFormat_G8_B8__G8_R8
T_R1 R
- NvColorFormat_R1
T_P1 P
- NvColorFormat_I1
T_P2
- PP
- NvColorFormat_I2
T_P4
- PPPP
- NvColorFormat_I4
T_DXT1_RGBA T_DXT1C_RGB T_DXT3_RGBA T_DXT5_RGBA T_ETC_RGB T_ETC3_RGBA T_ETC5_RGBA

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern (Left to Right: LS-Word to
- MS-Word, ms-bit to ls-bit per Word)
- Software Name
T_LATC1 T_LATC2 T_ETC2_RGB T_ETC2P_RGBA T_ETC2A_RGBA T_EAC4BPP_R T_EAC4BPP_R_SN T_EAC4BPP_RG T_EAC4BPP_RG_SN
- DPCM_RAW10
- RLE compressed format for RAW10 data
- Private VI output format
- DPCM_RAW12
- RLE compressed format for RAW12 data
- Private VI output format
- DPCM_RAW16
- RLE compressed format for RAW16 data
- Private VI output format
- DPCM_RAW20
- RLE compressed format for RAW20 data
- Private VI output format
##### 7.9.1.6.6 Multi-Pixel Packing Pixel Formats
Pixel data can come in nonpower of two bit sizes that are difficult to fetch and process when contained in certain memory formats (for example, block linear). For example, raw camera data can come in 6-bit and 10-bit pixel sizes. It can simplify pixel data fetch and processing by packing multiple pixels into a single large word.
- Table 7.123 Multiple Plane Pixel Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern (Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to
ls-bit per Byte) T_X2Lc10Lb10La10
- XX L2L2L2L2L2L2L2L2L2L2 L1L1L1L1L1L1L1L1L1L1
- L0L0L0L0L0L0L0L0L0L0
T_X2Le6Ld6Lc6Lb6La6
- XX L4L4L4L4L4L4 L3L3L3L3L3L3 L2L2L2L2L2L2 L1L1L1L1L1L1
- L0L0L0L0L0L0
##### 7.9.1.6.7 Multiple Plane Pixel Formats
Some color formats, for example, describing the YUV color space, split pixel data across multiple planes. Fully planar YUV formats contain three planes, one each for Y, U, and V components.
- Semiplanar YUV formats contain two planes, one for Y, and one shared between U and V

- Pixel Memory Formats
components. Some units may use a different color format name for each plane. Other units may use a single color format name describing all planes in a single name as described in the following table.
- Table 7.124 8-bit Multiple Plane Pixel Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per Byte)
- FOURCC
T_Y8___U8V8_N444
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y8___V8U8_N444
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y8___U8V8_N422
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NV61
T_Y8___V8U8_N422
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
- NV16
T_Y8___U8V8_N422R
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y8___V8U8_N422R
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y8___U8V8_N420
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NV21
T_Y8___V8U8_N420
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
- NV12
T_Y8___U8___V8_N444
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
- YV24
T_Y8___U8___V8_N422
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
- YV16
T_Y8___U8___V8_N422R
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y8___U8___V8_N420
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
- YV12
T_Y8___U8V8_N444_TRUE
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y8___V8U8_N444_TRUE
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y8___U8V8_N422_TRUE
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV

- Pixel Memory Formats
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per Byte)
- FOURCC
T_Y8___V8U8_N422_TRUE
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y8___U8V8_N422R_TRUE
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y8___V8U8_N422R_TRUE
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y8___U8V8_N420_TRUE
- Y8,U8V8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y8___V8U8_N420_TRUE
- Y8,V8U8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y8___U8___V8_N444_TRUE
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y8___U8___V8_N422_TRUE
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y8___U8___V8_N422R_TRUE
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y8___U8___V8_N420_TRUE
- Y8,U8, V8 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
- Table 7.125 10-bit Multiple Plane Pixel Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per Byte) T_Y10___U10V10_N444
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___V10U10_N444
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVV000000UUUUUUUUUU000000
T_Y10___U10V10_N422
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
- NV61
T_Y10___V10U10_N422
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVV000000UUUUUUUUUU000000
- NV16
T_Y10___U10V10_N422R
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___V10U10_N422R
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVV000000UUUUUUUUUU000000

- Pixel Memory Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per Byte) T_Y10___U10V10_N420
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
- NV21
T_Y10___V10U10_N420
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVV000000UUUUUUUUUU000000
- NV12
T_Y10___U10___V10_N444
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000
- YV24
T_Y10___U10___V10_N422
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000
- YV16
T_Y10___U10___V10_N422R
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___U10___V10_N420
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000
- YV12
T_Y10___U10V10_N444_TRUE
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___V10U10_N444_TRUE
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVV000000UUUUUUUUUU000000
T_Y10___U10V10_N422_TRUE
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___V10U10_N422_TRUE
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVV000000UUUUUUUUUU000000
T_Y10___U10V10_N422R_TRUE
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___V10U10_N422R_TRUE
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVV000000UUUUUUUUUU000000
T_Y10___U10V10_N420_TRUE
- Y10,U10V10 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___V10U10_N420_TRUE
- Y10,V10U10 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVV000000VUUUUUUUUUU000000
T_Y10___U10___V10_N444_TRUE
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___U10___V10_N422_TRUE
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000

- Pixel Memory Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per Byte) T_Y10___U10___V10_N422R_TRUE
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000
T_Y10___U10___V10_N420_TRUE
- Y10,U10, V10 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYY000000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUU000000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVV000000
- Table 7.126 12-bit Multiple Plane Pixel Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per Byte) T_Y12___U12V12_N444
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___V12U12_N444
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
T_Y12___U12V12_N422
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
- NV61
T_Y12___V12U12_N422
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- NV16
T_Y12___U12V12_N422R
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___V12U12_N422R
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
T_Y12___U12V12_N420
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
- NV21
T_Y12___V12U12_N420
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- NV12
T_Y12___U12___V12_N444
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
- YV24
T_Y12___U12___V12_N422
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
- YV16
T_Y12___U12___V12_N422R
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___U12___V12_N420
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
- YV12

- Pixel Memory Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per Byte) T_Y12___U12V12_N444_TRUE
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___V12U12_N444_TRUE
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
T_Y12___U12V12_N422_TRUE
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___V12U12_N422_TRUE
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
T_Y12___U12V12_N422R_TRUE
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___V12U12_N422R_TRUE
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
T_Y12___U12V12_N420_TRUE
- Y12,U12V12 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___V12U12_N420_TRUE
- Y12,V12U12 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVV0000VUUUUUUUUUUUU0000
T_Y12___U12___V12_N444_TRUE
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___U12___V12_N422_TRUE
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___U12___V12_N422R_TRUE
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
T_Y12___U12___V12_N420_TRUE
- Y12,U12, V12 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYY0000
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUU0000
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVV0000
- Table 7.127 16-bit Multiple Plane Pixel Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per
- Byte)
T_Y16___U16V16_N444
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V16U16_N444
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U16V16_N422
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- NV61

- Pixel Memory Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per
- Byte)
T_Y16___V16U16_N422
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- NV16
T_Y16___U16V16_N422R
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V16U16_N422R
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U16V16_N420
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- NV21
T_Y16___V16U16_N420
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- NV12
T_Y16___U16___V16_N444
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- YV24
T_Y16___U16___V16_N422
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- YV16
T_Y16___U16___V16_N422R
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U16___V16_N420
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- YV12
T_Y16___U16V16_N444_TRUE
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V16U16_N444_TRUE
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U16V16_N422_TRUE
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V16U16_N422_TRUE
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U16V16_N422R_TRUE
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V16U16_N422R_TRUE
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U16V16_N420_TRUE
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V16U16_N420_TRUE
- Y16,V16U16 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU

- Pixel Memory Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per
- Byte)
T_Y16___U16___V16_N444_TRUE
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U16___V16_N422_TRUE
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U16___V16_N422R_TRUE
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U16___V16_N420_TRUE
- Y16,U16, V16 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
- Table 7.128 16-bit Y/8-bit UV Multiple Plane Pixel Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per
- Byte)
T_Y16___U8V8_N444
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V8U8_N444
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U8V8_N422
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NV61
T_Y16___V8U8_N422
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
- NV16
T_Y16___U8V8_N422R
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V8U8_N422R
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U8V8_N420
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NV21
T_Y16___V8U8_N420
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- NV12
T_Y16___U8___V8_N444
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
- YV24
T_Y16___U8___V8_N422
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
- YV16

- Pixel Memory Formats
- FOURCC
- Hardware Name
- Bit Pattern
(Left to Right: MS-Byte to LS-Byte, ms-bit to ls-bit per
- Byte)
T_Y16___U8___V8_N422R
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U8___V8_N420
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
- YV16
T_Y16___U8V8_N444_TRUE
- Y16,U16V16 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V8U8_N444_TRUE
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV444 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U8V8_N422_TRUE
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V8U8_N422_TRUE
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV422 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U8V8_N422R_TRUE
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V8U8_N422R_TRUE
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV422R semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U8V8_N420_TRUE
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
T_Y16___V8U8_N420_TRUE
- Y16,V8U8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: VVVVVVVVUUUUUUUU
T_Y16___U8___V8_N444_TRUE
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV444 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U8___V8_N422_TRUE
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV422 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U8___V8_N422R_TRUE
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV422R full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y16___U8___V8_N420_TRUE
- Y16,U8, V8 (YUV420 full planar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUU
- Plane2: VVVVVVVV
T_Y16I___U8V8_N420
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
- ISP-only
Y-int T_Y16F___U8V8_N420
- Y16,U8V8 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Plane0: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
- Plane1: UUUUUUUUVVVVVVVV
Y-float

- Pixel Memory Formats
##### 7.9.1.6.8 Bayer Pixel Formats
Bayer pixel data can come from camera sensor equipment in various sizes, e.g., 6 bits, 10 bits, 14 bits, 16 bits, etc. Bayer (also referred to as RAW) data is stored using the following pixel formats: T_R8, T_R16, T_R16_I, T_R16_F, T_R24, T_R32, T_R32_F, T_R16_X_ISP20, T_R16_X_ISP24
##### 7.9.1.6.9 Supported Pixel Formats
This table summarizes the pixel formats supported by each of the pixel-capable bus masters. A ‘1’ indicates support for that format by the device identified at the head of the corresponding column.
- Note: T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation*
- Table 7.129 Supported Pixel Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)*
- Single Plane Surface Formats
T_A8 - - - - - - - - - T_A4 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_A2 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_A1 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_L8/T_Y8/YUV100 - - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - - T_L16 - - - - - - - - - - T_L16_I - - - - - - - - - - - T_L16_F - - - - - - - - - - - T_L32_I - - - - - - - - - - - T_L32_F - - - - - - - - - - - T_A4L4 - - - - - - - - - - - T_L4A4 - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_R4 T_R4_I T_R8 - - - - - T_R10 - - - - - - - - - - T_R12 - - - - - - - - - - T_R8_I - - - - - - - - - - T_R16 - - - - T_R16_I - - - - - - - T_R16_F - - - - - - - - T_R8_RJ_ISP T_R10_RJ_ISP T_R12_RJ_ISP T_R14_RJ_ISP T_R20_RJ_ISP T_R24_RJ_ISP T_R16_X_ISP20 - - - - - - - - - - T_R16_X_ISP24 - - - - - - - - - - T_R24 - - - - - - - - - - T_R32 - - - - - - - - - T_R32_I - - - - - - - - - - T_R32_F - - - - - - - - - T_G16R16 - - - - - - - - - T_G16R16_I - - - - - - - - T_A16B16G16R16 - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_A16B16G16R16_I - - - - - - - - - - - T_A16B16G16R16_NVB - - - - - - - - - - - T_X16B16G16R16 - - - - - - - - - T_X16B16G16R16_I - - - - - - - - - - T_A16B16G16R16_F - - - - - - T_A16Y16U16V16 - - - - - - - - T_A16Y16U16V16_I - - - - - - - - - - T_V16U16Y16A16 - - - - - - - - - T_V16U16Y16A16_I - - - - - - - - - - T_A16Y16U16V16_F - - - - - - - - - T_A32B32G32R32_F - - - - - - - - - - - T_A32Y32U32V32_F - - - - - - - - - - - T_X2Lc10Lb10La10 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_A8L8 - - - - - - - - - - - T_L8A8 - - - - - - - - - - - T_R8G8 - - - - - - - - - - T_G8R8 - - - - - - - - - T_G8R8_I - - - - - - - - - - - - T_G8R24 - - - - - - - - - - - T_G24R8 - - - - - - - - - - - T_G4R4 - - - - - - - - - - - T_G8B8G8R8 - - - - - - - - - - - T_B8G8R8G8 - - - - - - - - - - - T_B5G6R5 - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_R5G6B5 - - - - - - - T_B6G5R5 - - - - - - - - - - T_R5G5B6 - - - - - - - - - - T_A1B5G5R5 - - - - - - - - - T_A1R5G5B5 - - - - - - - T_B5G5R5A1 - - - - - - - - - T_R5G5B5A1 - - - - - - - - T_A5B5G5R1 - - - - - - - - - - T_A5R1G5B5 - - - - - - - - - - T_B5G5R1A5 - - - - - - - - - - T_R1G5B5A5 - - - - - - - - - - T_X1B5G5R5 - - - - - - - - - - T_X1R5G5B5 - - - - - - - - - T_B5G5R5X1 - - - - - - - - - - T_R5G5B5X1 - - - - - - - - - - T_A4B4G4R4 - - - - - - - - - T_A4R4G4B4 - - - - - - - - - T_B4G4R4A4 - - - - - - - - - T_R4G4B4A4 - - - - - - - - T_R8G8B8 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_B8G8R8 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_A8B8G8R8 - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_A8R8G8B8 - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - T_B8G8R8A8 - - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - T_R8G8B8A8 - - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - T_X8B8G8R8 - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - T_X8R8G8B8 - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - T_B8G8R8X8 - - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - T_R8G8B8X8 - - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - T_A2B10G10R10 - - - - - T_A2R10G10B10 - - - - - T_B10G10R10A2 - - - - - - - T_R10G10B10A2 - - - - - - - T_A2Y10U10V10 - - - - - - - - - - - T_V10U10Y10A2 - - - - - - - - - - - T_A4P4 - - - - - - - - - - - T_A8P8 - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_P8 - - - - - - - - - - - T_P4 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_P2 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_P1 - - - - - - - - - - - - T_U8V8 - - - - - - - - - - T_V8U8 - - - - - - - - - - T_A8Y8U8V8 (AYUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - T_V8U8Y8A8 (AYUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - T_V8_U8_Y8 (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_U8_V8_Y8 (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_V8_Y8_U8 (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8_V8_U8 (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8_U8_V8 (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8 (YUV422 packed) - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - - T_Y8_V8__Y8_U8 (YUV422 packed) - - - - - - - - - T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8 (YUV422 packed) - - - - - - - - T_V8_Y8__U8_Y8 (YUV422 packed) - - - - - - - - - T_A8Y8U8V8_TRUE (AYUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_V8U8Y8A8_TRUE (AYUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_V8_U8_Y8_TRUE (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_U8_V8_Y8_TRUE (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_V8_Y8_U8_TRUE (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_V8_Y8_U8_TRUE (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8_V8_U8_TRUE (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8_U8_V8_TRUE (YUV444 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8_U8__Y8_V8_TRUE (YUV422 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8_V8__Y8_U8_TRUE (YUV422 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_U8_Y8__V8_Y8_TRUE (YUV422 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_V8_Y8__U8_Y8_TRUE (YUV422 packed) - - - - - - - - - - - - 8-bit Multi-Plane Surface Formats T_Y8___U8V8_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - T_Y8___U8V8_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8V8_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8V8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar)
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - T_Y8___U8___V8_N444 (YUV444 planar) - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_Y8___U8___V8_N422 (YUV422 planar) - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - - - T_Y8___U8___V8_N422R (YUV422R planar) - - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8___V8_N420 (YUV420 planar) - -
- Decod
er:1
- Encod
er: - - - - - - T_Y8___U8V8_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8V8_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8V8_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8V8_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___V8U8_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8___V8_N444_TRUE (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8___V8_N422_TRUE (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8___V8_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y8___U8___V8_N420_TRUE (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* 10-bit Multi-Plane Surface
- Formats
- - - T_Y10___U10V10_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - T_Y10___U10V10_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10V10_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10V10_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N444 (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N422 (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N422R (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N420 (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10V10_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10V10_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_Y10___U10V10_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10V10_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___V10U10_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N444_TRUE (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N422_TRUE (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y10___U10___V10_N420_TRUE (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - 12-bit Multi-Plane Surface
- Formats
- - - T_Y12___U12V12_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___V12U12_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12V12_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___V12U12_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12V12_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___V12U12_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12V12_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___V12U12_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_Y12___U12___V12_N444 (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12___V12_N422 (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12___V12_N422R (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12___V12_N420 (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12V12_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12V12_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12V12_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12V12_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12___V12_N444_TRUE (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12___V12_N422_TRUE (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12___V12_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y12___U12___V12_N420_TRUE (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - 16-bit Multi-Plane Surface
- Formats
- - - T_Y16___U16V16_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16V16_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_Y16___U16V16_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16V16_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16___V16_N444 (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16___V16_N422 (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16___V16_N422R (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16___V16_N420 (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16V16_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16V16_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16V16_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16V16_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V16U16_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16___V16_N444_TRUE (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_Y16___U16___V16_N422_TRUE (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16___V16_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U16___V16_N420_TRUE (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - 16-bit Y/8-bit UV Multi-Plane
- Surface Formats
- - - T_Y16___U8V8_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N444 (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8V8_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N422 (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8V8_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N422R (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8V8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16I___U8V8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16I___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16F___U8V8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16F___V8U8_N420 (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8___V8_N422R (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
- VI
C V I
- IS
P
- PV
A
- DL
A
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tect ure
- Tegr
a
- CRO
P
- NVDis
play
- NVD
- EC
- NVE
- NC
- NVO
- FA
- NVJP
G
- NVID
- IA
- Amp
ere
- Archi
tectu re
- Tegr
a
- Tex
- Supported Pixel Format
(T_* convention - MSB to LSB if no "_" notation)* T_Y16___U8___V8_N420 (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8V8_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N444_TRUE (YUV444 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8V8_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N422_TRUE (YUV422 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8V8_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8V8_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___V8U8_N420_TRUE (YUV420 semiplanar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8___V8_N444_TRUE (YUV444 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8___V8_N422_TRUE (YUV422 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8___V8_N422R_TRUE (YUV422R planar) - - - - - - - - - - - - T_Y16___U8___V8_N420_TRUE (YUV420 planar) - - - - - - - - - - - -

- Pixel Memory Formats
### 7.9.2 Programming Guidelines
#### 7.9.2.1 Software Guidelines
Software should allocate surfaces respecting the minimum alignments specified in the Tiling Formats section. This section gives additional alignment restrictions for certain clients and advice on allocating surfaces for best performance. Certain clients, such as NVENC, NVDEC, Display, and VIC use 32-bit registers (left-shifted 8) to specify 40-bit base addresses of a buffer. Base addresses for these clients must be aligned to a minimum of 256 B. Certain clients, such as NVENC and VIC have a fixed cache line size and read all data within a cache line, even if it is beyond the nominal height and width of the surface. For such clients, surface width and height need to be padded to at least the next multiple of the cache line size so the unit does not read beyond the end of the buffer.
##### 7.9.2.1.1 Surface Type
Block linear format generally provides best performance and should be chosen by default. Pitch format may be preferable if producer and consumer clients perform linear accesses and both clients support pitch.
- Private formats are used by a few units, such as VI, ISP, NVENC, and NVDEC. For private
formats, the client-required allocation and padding rules must be followed.
##### 7.9.2.1.2 Block Linear
- Surfaces to be accessed by the ga10b texture unit may require a smaller block height under
certain conditions.
- Hardware allocates a block linear surface to be an integral number of blocks wide, so its
allocated width is width*Bpp rounded up to the next block boundary (64B), which is sufficient padding in almost all circumstances. Surfaces should be an integral number of blocks tall. If a client such as NVENC or VIC has a cache line that is taller than the block height, additional row(s) of blocks may be required for padding.
- Note 1: For buffers that are to be accessed using the gv11b texture unit, the BlockHeight
parameter must match that used by the texture unit. In particular, note that if a texture surface is smaller than the specified size in blocks, texture uses a shrunken BlockHeight instead of the nominal parameter specified in the Texture Header. Note 2: If VIC cacheline shapes of 128x2 or 256x1 are used (generally not recommended for block linear), width must be padded up to a multiple of the cache line width. If this is not possible, a narrower cache line shape must be used.

- Pixel Memory Formats
##### 7.9.2.1.3 Pitch
- For clients, such as NVENC and VIC, additional lines of padding may be required beyond the
nominal height of the surface. For example, when VIC is reading a source buffer with an internal cache line shape of 32x8, the source buffer must be a multiple of eight lines tall.
#### 7.9.2.2 Block Height Limitations
NVENC and OFA support only a subset of the block heights. However, in general all hardware blocks support full range of block heights (that is, 2/4/8/16/32). Refer to the following table of programmable block height support.
- Block
- Surface
- Block Heights Supported
- ISP
- Any
- All (optimal performance BlockHeight=2)
- NVDEC
- Any
- All except 1 (optimal performance based on Coding
- Tree Block size)
- NVENC
- Input/Reference
- All (optimal performance based on Coding Tree Block
size)
- Recon
- BlockHeight = 2 only
- OFA
- Input/Reference
- All except 1 (optimal performance BlockHeight=2)
- Output Flow/Disparity
- All except 1
- VIC
- Input
- All (optimal performance BlockHeight=16)
- Output
- All (optimal performance BH=32 normal/BH=2
rotated)
- Display
- Horizontal
- All (optimal performance BlockHeight=2)
- Vertical
- All (optimal performance BlockHeight=16)
- PVA
- Any
- All (optimal performance BlockHeight=2)
- NVDLA
- Input
- All (optimal performance BlockHeight=2)
Beyond limitations of multimedia blocks performance with respect to block height, the SMMU has possibly a larger performance penalty for block heights that are outside of the SMMU block height sweet spot. A summary of block height recommendations:
- BlockHeight = 16 GOBs (128 lines) is the recommended setting for most clients that use
block linear. It provides decent accesses per activate for clients that traverse a buffer horizontally, vertically, or in tiles. DRAM pages are 64B × 64 lines. TLB cache lines are roughly square in screen space. This should be the default setting and is the only performant block height for rotated display.

- Pixel Memory Formats
- BlockHeight = 1 GOB (eight lines) is optimal for clients that make horizontal accesses,
doubling access per activate, but at the expense of clients that make vertical accesses. This is the optimal setting for nonrotated display, but other block heights are okay for nonrotated display.
- BlockHeight = 2 GOBs (16 lines) is the hard-coded value for NVENC video engines RECON
surface. It does not provide the access per activate benefit of BlockHeight = 1 and TLB cache lines have a poor aspect ratio. Buffers used by this client must have block height = 2.

- Computer Vision Acceleration
8. Computer Vision Acceleration
