# 7.5 Display Controller

### 7.5.1 Overview
The Display Controller is based on the NVDisplay 4.0 architecture, and has changed from prior NVIDIA SoCs. The main new features of NVDisplay 4.0 architecture are DSI output, native 4:2:0 HDMI output, and support for HDMI 2.1 Fixed Rate Link mode. The MIPI DSI protocol is used in some applications. The DSI encoder is handled separately but integrated into the Display hierarchy. The DSI encoder is another form of output resource. Native 4:2:0 output supports the 2head1Or feature (both heads are combined to drive a single panel over one output resource) to drive 8K HDMI panels without DSC compression. The display processing pipeline down samples 4:4:4 pixels to 4:2:0. The HDMI 2.1 Fixed Rate Link mode increases the available HDMI link bandwidth by approximately 3x over HDMI 2.0. It also permits DSC compressed streams over HDMI. The Display Controller has two heads and four windows. A window is a single surface that can be assigned to any head. Each head supports a single cursor, which can be composited on top of all windows. There is some amount of per-window pixel processing (the precomp pipeline) and some amount of per-head pixel processing (the post-comp pipeline). There is a single shared Isochronous Memory Hub (ISO Hub) for memory access, which services all window surfaces. The output from any head can be routed to any SOR; except only head0 can be attached to DSI. There is a crossbar between each SOR to each output link. All four windows are Full windows. Full windows contain the full HDR pixel processing functionality including a precomp scaler and tone mapping.

- Display Controller
**Figure 7.53 Top-Level Block Diagram**
#### 7.5.1.1 Standards Supported
- HDMI2.1
- DP1.4a
eDP1.4
- HDCP1.3 / HDCP2.3
- HDA1.0
#### 7.5.1.2 Glossary
- Note that different names may end up in the same acronym when the entire TRM is put in
perspective. The acronyms listed here are within the context of the Display Controller chapter.
- Term
- Definition
- AZA
- Intel Azalia Audio Controller
- ASR
- Aggressive Self Refresh
bpc
- Bit Per Component

- Display Controller
- Term
- Definition
bpp
- Bit Per Pixel
- BPP
- Byte Per Pixel
- CEC
- Consumer Electronics Control
- CMGR
- Clock Manager
- DC
- Display Controller
- DisplayPort
- DisplayPort
- DPAUX
- DisplayPort Auxiliary channel
- DVFS
- Dynamic Voltage Frequency Scale
eDP embedded DisplayPort (VESA)
- FB
- Frame Buffer
- HDMI
- High-Definition Multimedia Interface
- HDCP
- High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection
H-DA
- High Definition Audio
- HBR
- High Bit Rate (2.7 Gbps per lane)
- HBR2
- High Bit Rate 2 (5.4 Gbps per lane)
- HBR3
- High Bit Rate 3 (8.1 Gbps per lane)
- HPD
- Hot Plug Detect
- ISO Hub
- Isochronous Memory Hub
- LUT
- Look-Up Table
- PCLK
- Pixel Clock
- RBR
- Reduced Bit Rate
- RG
- Raster Generator
- SOR
- Serial Output Resource (changing display-raster pixels into different
protocols such as DisplayPort, HDMI)
- TMDS
- Transition-Minimized Differential Signaling
- TSC
- Time Stamps Controller
- VPR
- Video Protected Region
- VR
- Virtual Reality
- WGRP
- Window Group
- WinTZ
- Trustzone Window

- Display Controller
#### 7.5.1.3 Relevant Chapters in the TRM
- Address Map
- Clock Controller and Reset (CAR)
- CEC
- HDA
- Host Controller
- Memory Controller (MC)
#### 7.5.1.4 Features
##### 7.5.1.4.1 General
- Independent scan out paths (heads)
- Two heads
- One cursor on each head
- A8R8G8B8
- A1R5G5B5
- Cursor is enabled on a head if the head has at least one Window attached. Window need
not be enabled. The cursor pixels must be linearly encoded to be properly composited with Window pixels. XOR blending mode is approximated in the FP16 compositor.
- Max cursor size: 256 x 256
- Windows
- Four windows (four full windows)
Windows can be dynamically assigned to any head.
- Max raster size: 32767 x 32767
- Max active region 8192 x 8192
- Max input surface size: 32768 x 32768
- Max fetched size: 8208 x 8208
- Max pclk: up to 1,190 MHz (this may vary between the variants, confirm from the relevant
datasheet)
- Two heads may be combined together with compression or 4:2:0 to support monitors with
pclk frequencies up to 2,380 MHz (see note on previous line).
- One-Shot and Continuous display modes
Note that stereo is not supported in One-Shot mode. DSI is not supported in One-Shot mode.
- Semaphores
- Separate acquire and release window semaphores

- Display Controller
Six release-only semaphores per head based on RG line number. Support both 32-bit and 64-bit acquire and release values.
- Supports Strict Equal, Strict Greater-or-Equal, and Circular Greater-or-Equal acquisition
modes.
- Notifiers
- CRC notifier
- Completion notifier
- Flip control
minimum present interval
- Timestamp Flip
- Non-Tearing and Immediate flip modes
-
- Immediate flip supported for RGB only
- Generic Interlock between display channels
- Flip Lock
- Push buffers
- Hardware clipping of windows to the viewport
- Independent channels for cursor position and window position
- Programmable viewport position
- Overscan border
- Error checks
- Context DMAs
- Hardware-controlled mode sets
- Glitchless mode switches
##### 7.5.1.4.2 Input Surface
- Color Formats
Indexed Color:
- I8
2BPP RGB:
- R4G4B4A4, R5G6B5, A1R5G5B5, R5G5B5A1
4BPP, 8bpc RGB:
- A8R8G8B8, X8R8G8B8, A8B8G8R8, X8B8G8R8
4BPP, 10bpc RGB:
- A2R10G10B10, A2B10G10R10
64-bit RGB:
- R16_G16_B16_A16_NVBIAS, R16_G16_B16_A16
- FP16 RGB

- Display Controller
- RF16_GF16_BF16_AF16
Packed YUV 422:
- Y8_U8__Y8_V8_N422, U8_Y8__V8_Y8_N422
Semi-Planar 8bpc:
- Y8___U8V8_N444, Y8___U8V8_N422, Y8___V8U8_N420
Semi-Planar 10bpc:
- Y10___U10V10_N444, Y10___U10V10_N422, Y10___V10U10_N420
Semi-Planar 12bpc:
- Y12___U12V12_N444, Y12___U12V12_N422, Y12___V12U12_N420
Planar 8bpc:
- Y8___U8___V8_N444, Y8___U8___V8_N420
- No support for 10bpc or 12bpc planar
YUV surfaces have the following restrictions:
- Surfaces with chroma subsampling must have an even number of pixels/lines in the
direction of subsampling. When 90/270 rotation is enabled, all YUV surfaces must have even height. When 90/270 rotation is not enabled, all YUV surfaces must have even width.
- Isochronous Memory Hub
- Unified Mempool and Display fetch arbitration=1380 KB
- Fetch Metering
- Mempool Drain metering
- Horizontal and vertical-flipped scan direction
- Rotation
- BLx8 fetch pattern used for rotation
Rotation is supported on all windows.
- No more than one window using the I8 or YUV surface formats can be rotated (90/270
degrees) at any given time
- Pitch surface support
- Block Linear surface support
NVDisplay fetches BLx4 and uses XBAR_RAW addressing.
- VPR-capable read-only client
128 B read request interface
- Response bus is 64 B
Critical watermark to limit buffering when immediate flip is active.
- Defined as a number of lines
- Midframe mclk switch
- Used for DVFS

- Display Controller
- Hardware Performance Monitor support
##### 7.5.1.4.3 Pixel Processing
- Pipeline Depth
- Fixed Point for some stages: 16 bpc, [-1.5,2.5] range (2 range extension bits)
- FP16 for other stages
- Alpha blending
such as full alpha, per-window color key, global alpha alpha blending is always done with FP16 in the linear color domain
- Per Window Processing
- Chroma up-conversion for chroma-decimated YUV formats
- Chroma overfetch
- Multiple per-window CSC matrices
3 x 4 matrix multiplication with software-defined coefficients in the [-16, 16) range There are several CSC matrixes at different stages of the pipe.
- Per-window LUTs (ILUT, CSC0LUT, CSC1LUT)
programmable matrix + variable step size LUT-based CSC from input to ICtCp; also from
- ICtCp to RGB with final output gamut. The scaling and tone mapping are done in ICtCp
domain.
- Input range is limited to [0,1]. Can be mirrored around 0 to support [-1,1]
- ILUT
- - - - -
- Used to convert from fixed point to FP16 linear
- Variable step size and direct index mode
- Maximum size: 1025 entries
16 bpc
- Programmed using the Context DMA method
- CSC0LUT
- - - -
- Used to convert from FP16 to fixed point
- Variable step size
- Maximum size: 513
- Programmed directly using methods
- CSC1LUT
- - - -
- Used to convert from fixed point to FP16 linear
- Variable step size
- Maximum size: 513
- Programmed directly using methods
- Precomposition scaling

- Display Controller
- Maximum line width
- - 5120 pixels in 2-tap mode 2560 pixels in 5-tap mode
- Maximum downscale factor
- - 2x in both directions in 2-tap mode 4x in both directions in 5-tap mode
- Scaler overfetch
- Programmable 5-tap coefficients
- Tone Mapping (TMO)
- LUT-based intensity mapping, and 3 intensity zones with configurable color correction
settings
- Programmable range clamping before composition
- Per Head Processing
- Post-composition LUT
- Used to convert from FP16 linear to fixed-point gamma-encoded pixels
- Variable step size. Also supports direct10 mode for medical imaging (DICOM)
- Maximum size: 1025 entries
14 bpc, [0,1] range. Can be mirrored around 0 to support [-1,1]
- Dither
6, 8, 10 bpc output
- Static and Dynamic Error Accumulation Dither
- Temporal Dither
2 x 2 Static and Dynamic Dither
- Round-to-nearest (12 bpc output supported with this mode)
- Chroma Low-Pass filter (to facilitate 422 output)
- Programmable output CSC matrix
- Overscan border is added when the output viewport is smaller than the active raster region
- Programmable range clamping before output
- Display Stream Compression (DSC) v1.2a
- RGB444/YCbCr444 input at 8/10/12bpc
6bpp-32bpp output pixel depth with 1/16bpp precision 1, 2, 4 slices per line
- Max line width: 5120
- Max pclk with DSC: same as max pclk
4:2:0 chroma downsampling
- Convert from 4:4:4 to 4:2:0
- Additional chroma overfetch added for this stage

- Display Controller
- Maximum line width: 5120
- Regional CRCs
Nine programmable regions with software-defined golden values. Used for safety features.
##### 7.5.1.4.4 Output
2Head1OR
- The DSC compressed or 4:2:0 packed output from two heads can be merged to output an
8K stream. (Note that DSC only supports 4:4:4). DSC bpp must be <=16bpp in this mode.
- Maximum raster active width in 2head1OR mode is 7680 (3840 per head)
- Raster Lock
- Internal locking
- Stereo phase lock
- Stall Lock
- Progressive output only
- No support for interlaced
- Stereo
- Frame Interleave
- Hardware-constructed Frame packed Stereo for HDMI
- Two programmable line interrupts (registers)
- Six programmable line semaphores (methods)
- Can also trigger interrupts
- DisplayPort 1.4a (No DP2.0 support)
- Up to 8 channel 48 kHz Audio
- RBR, HBR, HBR2, HBR3
- RGB444 and YUV444 6, 8, 10, 12 bpc (6 bpc is RGB only)
- YUV422 8, 10, 12 bpc
Maximum pclk over a single 4 lane HBR3 link without downspread, FEC, or DSC: - - - - - 1190 MHz at 16bpp (YUV 422) 1,190 MHz at 18bpp 1,080 MHz at 24bpp 864 MHz at 30bpp 720 MHz at 36bpp
- Two Generic info frames per head (likely used for VSC and static HDR)
-
- No native support for Dynamic HDR metadata
- Forward Error Correction (FEC)
- DSC transport
-
- PPS can be used as another generic info frame when not being used for DSC

- Display Controller
- DisplayPort Multistream (MST)
-
- Any combination of heads can be sent to any combination of SORs (provided there is
enough link bandwidth to support those streams)
- Dual-MST
- -
- Not supported with YUV 4:2:2 output format
- Not supported with FEC
eDP 1.4b
- PSR v1
- NLT
- NVSR
- Support for intermediate link rates (2.16, 2.43, 3.24, 4.32, 6.75 Gbps/lane)
- HDMI 2.0a and HDMI 1.4
Maximum pclk supported in non-FRL mode is as follows: 8bpc 10bpc 12bpc
- RGB / YUV 4:4:4
600 MHz 320 MHz 400 MHz
- YUV 4:2:2
600 MHz 600 MHz 600 MHz
- YUV 4:2:0
1,200 MHz 640 MHz 800 MHz
- Up to 8 channel 192 kHz Audio
- AVI, VSI, GCP, and one Generic Info frame supported
-
- No support for Dynamic HDR metadata
- HDMI 2.1
- Fixed Rate link at 3G, 6G, 8G, 10G, or 12G
- RGB/YUV4:4:4 and YUV 4:2:0 uncompressed
- DSC transport over FRL (RGB/YUV 4:4:4 only)
- No 4:2:2 support in FRL mode
- No hardware support for other HDMI 2.1 features has been added. Some features like VRR
and QFT may be supported using software-only changes.
- Maximum supported pclk: 2,376 MHz (using 2Head1Or)
- HDCP
- HDCP 1.4 for HDMI
- HDCP 1.3 Amendment 1.1 for DisplayPort
- HDCP 2.3 for both DisplayPort and HDMI
- SOR Links
- Two SOR and one total link
- Either SOR can drive the link
- No dual-link support
- DSI

- Display Controller
- Head 0 only
- Four lane DSI-D
- Three trio DSI-C
- Max pclk: 500 MHz (1536 x 2456 @ 75 Hz)
6 bpc, 8 bpc, 10 bpc, 12 bpc RGB
- DSC (8, 10, 12, 16 bpp only)
- No audio support
##### 7.5.1.4.5 Performance
NVD4.0 is designed to target a maximum single head display resolution of 7680 x 4320 @ 30 Hz. 8K at 60 Hz requires two heads. The maximum pixel clock is 1,190 MHz. There are a maximum of 4 window surfaces and 2 cursor surfaces fetched at any given time. Note that the total number of surfaces active at any given time is limited by the available guaranteed ISO bandwidth from FB.
- Table 7.98 FB Bandwidth Requirement
- Max FB bandwidth
20 GB/s
- Heads
- Windows
- 1 GB = 1000 * 1000 * 1000 bytes
- Minimum hblank
Pixel processing within the Display pipeline can introduce bubbles between each line of pixels. The output protocol may incur additional overhead on top of the pixel stream. Hblank of the raster must absorb the overhead bubbles and encoding.
- Table 7.99 Minimum Hblank Requirement
- Unit
- Worst-case per-line gap
- Reason
- ISO Hub
- Packed: 6
- Planar/Semi-planar: 16
- Unused data at the beginning and end of a line needs
to be dropped.
- Planar Format: Worst case: 16 disp-clks
- SP Format: Worst case: 16 disp-clks
- Packed Format: Worst case: 6 disp-clks
- Precomp
- RGB: 34
- YUV: 40
- YUV chroma up-conversion: 2 cycles
- PXCTL state machines in PXGEN: 8 cycles
- Horizontal Scaler: 11 cycles
- Vertical Scaler: 15 cycles
- Extra pixels from YUVCrop: 4
- Comp
Cursor inserts a 6-cycle bubble.

- Display Controller
- Unit
- Worst-case per-line gap
- Reason
- Post-comp
- Horizontal Chroma Low-Pass filter: 8
- RG
- RG requires at least 3 pixels of hblank for HFP, HSYNC,
and HBP, but it does not introduce any bubbles of its own.
- SF/SOR
- DisplayPort min hblank can be up to 52 for single-head
DSC.
- HDMI min hblank, no audio, no HDCP 1.3: 14
- HDMI min hblank, w/audio, no HDCP1.3: 64
- HDMI min hblank, w/audio, and HDCP 1.3: 106
- FE
- FE is not directly involved with the line-to-line behavior
of the pipeline. The minimum hblank refers to the size of hblank programmed in the RG methods. When 2head1Or is enabled, DD halves the RG’s horizontal raster parameters. A configuration that requires N pixels of blanking requires a resolution with 2N pixels of blanking when this mode is used. The pessimistic minimum hblank for a YUV planar or semiplanar surface is:
- MAX (SOR min hblank, (ISO Hub + precomp + comp + post-comp + RG))
- MAX (SOR min hblank, 70)
If some features are not enabled, the minimum hblank may be smaller.
- Minimum vblank
To do an mclk switch during vblank, fetching must be stopped for the duration of the mclk switch or DVFS event. A complete spool up before the active region begins when fetching starts. If precomp scaling, post-comp scaling, all LUTs, DSC, 2head1Or, and mempool compression are enabled, then 22.5 scan lines are needed to complete spool up. Vblank should be greater than <fb stop time> + 22.5 lines. The 22.5 lines may be reduced if some features are not in use or if dispclk is running faster than the minimum dispclk required for the current mode.
##### 7.5.1.4.6 Max Resolutions
- The maximum pixel clock is 1,190 MHz. With the 2head1Or feature, the maximum targeted
resolution is 7680 x 4320 @ 60 Hz (pclk 2,376 MHz).
##### 7.5.1.4.7 State Management
Most method state in Display is triple buffered.
- Assembly: This state is set when a method is processed. The assembly value is sent on the
bundle bus to the appropriate submodule. This state does not directly affect functionality.
- This state is needed because each new Display configuration requires multiple methods,

- Display Controller
which are not atomic. This state permits software to assemble the next Display configuration over multiple methods.
- Armed: An update promotion bundle on the bundle bus atomically copies the assembly state
for a single channel to armed. This intermediate state is needed so that software can change the Display configuration multiple times per frame. After the promotion to Armed, software is free to overwrite the Assembly state and potentially perform another Update before the next frame begins.
- Active: At the start of each frame, a LoadV on the pixel bus promotes the current Armed
state to Active for all channels associated with that head. Active state controls the functionality of Display. All pixels that are processed before the LoadV use the Active state from the previous frame. All pixels that are processed after the LoadV use the Active state from the new frame. Software controls the location of update in the method stream. Multiple channels may be updated at the same time using interlocked updates. During every frame, hardware generates LoadV.
##### 7.5.1.4.8 Software Interfaces
Methods and registers control the display configuration state. Methods are triple buffered. Registers are typically single buffered and take effect immediately. There are exceptions to both rules. Methods enter the Display hardware through pushbuffers. The display itself manages the pushbuffers, rather than Host. Register programming is done through private register accesses (MMIO) through APB. Sets of methods are collected into channels, which all promote (update) at the same time. Updates on one channel do not affect other channels. The channels are defined below.
- Core Channel
The Core channel controls all shared resources like OR ownership and Window ownership. It also controls all per-head state such as raster parameters and post-comp pipe settings. There is only one Core channel. Core channel controls:
- Core Completion notifier
- Lockpins
- OR state
- OR ownership
- OR protocol
- Core Window state
- Window Usage Bounds
- Window Ownership
- Core Head state
- Raster parameters

- Display Controller
- Head Usage bounds
- Raster lock
- Output Scaler
- Cursor size and surface
- Output LUT, Output Color Space, Output Dynamic Range
- Dither / output color depth
- Head CRCs
- DSC settings
2Head1Or controls
- Chroma downsampling
- Head semaphores
- Window Channel
The window channels control all of the per-window state other than window position. There is one window channel per window supported by the chip. Window channel controls:
- Window Semaphores and Notifiers
- Composition controls (such as blend mode, depth)
- Window scaler
- Window size
- Window surface
- Input LUT
- Tone Mapping
- Surface format
- Presentation controls
- CSC0/CSC1 settings (matrix coefficients, LUT settings)
- WindowImmediate Channel
The WindowImmediate channel controls the position of the window surface on the Desktop. This is a separate channel so that the window position can be changed even if the Window channel is blocked for some reason allowing a smoother user experience. The WindowImmediate channel is a pushbuffer channel. This permits software to queue up several updates simultaneously.
- Cursor Channel
The Cursor channel defines the position of the cursor surface. The cursor surface itself is defined in the Core channel. Much like the Window Immediate channel, the purpose of this channel is to permit the cursor position to change even if the core channel is blocked or stalled for some reason.

- Display Controller
The Cursor channel is the only channel not controlled by the pushbuffer. Register writes to the UDISP address range to program the Cursor channel that is a PIO channel. Writes to this range generates cursor methods within Display. No pushbuffer or FIFO is associated with this channel, so software must take care not to generate new methods when the hardware is still busy with the previous method. Display hardware reports a “Free” value to report if there is free space to generate another method.
- Interlock / Fliplock
While normally the update methods on each channel are handled individually, Display provides the ability to interlock updates between (almost) any set of channels. With each update software can define the set of other channels that it wants to interlock. Display hardware waits for updates to be ready on all specified channels before permitting all of the updates to complete. The Window Immediate channels can only be interlocked with their associated Window channel. This is done to simplify the hardware implementation. Fliplock is a special case of Interlock, which uses an internal or external lock pin. This imposes additional restrictions on the timing of the Update to ensure that flips happen on the same frame even across multiple heads. Fliplocked heads must be rasterlocked.
- Register Ranges
- The Display address range is 0x138EFFFF: 0x13800000 (no VGA range). All addresses in the
following tables are zero-based, before adding the Display Base Address.
- Table 7.100 Major Display Register Ranges
- Name
- Byte Address
- Description
- Non-VGA Display Address Range
0x000EFFFF:0x00000000 Host allocates 1 MB of address range for DISP. The first 64 K is reserved for VGA I/O accesses.
- PDISP
0x0003FFFF:0x00000000 256 K
- DISP Error Collator
0x00040FFF:0x00040000 4 K used for the Error Collator registers
- Reserved
0x0005FFFF:0x00041000 124 K Unused for now
- UDISP
0x000EFFFF:0x00060000 576 K
- Mostly user registers. Private state cache also
defined in this range.
- Table 7.101 Display Private Register Ranges
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_PDISP_FE
0x00005FFF:0x00000000 24 K 0x6000
- Front End registers

- Display Controller
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_PDISP_HEAD
0x00009FFF:0x00006000 16 K 0x4000
- Head registers
2 K per head (0x800)
- Comp Head
- Post-comp
- Cursor Head
- TZ Head
- RG
- SF
- Reserved
0x0000BFFF:0x0000A000
- NV_PDISP_SOR
0x0000FFFF:0x0000C000 16 K 0x4000
- Per-SOR registers
2 K (0x800) per SOR
- Reserved
0x00011FFF:0x00010000 8 k 0x2000
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_WBOR
0x00012FFF:0x00012000 4 k 0x1000
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_DSI
0x00013FFF:0x00013000 4 k 0x1000 DSI registers.
- Reserved
0x000147FF:0x00014000 2 k 0x800
- NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF
0x0001487F:0x00014800 128 B
- Key RAM controls
- NV_PDISP_SEC
0x000148FF:0x00014880 128 B
- Misc Security status/controls
- NV_PDISP_UPSTREAM
0x000149FF:0x00014900 256 B
- HDCP Upstream reporting
- Reserved
- NV_PDISP_VGA
0x00015FFF:0x00015000 4 k 0x1000 dword aliases for all of the VGA registers
- Reserved
0x00017FFF:0x00016000 8 k 0x2000
- NV_PDISP_IHUB
0x0001FFFF:0x00018000 32 K 0x8000
- ISO Hub registers
512 B per window 512 B per cursor
- NV_PDISP_WIN
0x0002FFFF:0x00020000 64 K 0x10000
- Per-window registers
2 k per WIN (1K precomp, 1 K comp)
- NV_PDISP_FE_SW
0x00030FFF:0x00030000 4 k 0x1000 Software read/write capability registers.
- Must be 4K aligned so that they can be
mapped to DD.
- Reserved
0x0003FFFF:0x00031000
- NV_PDISP_FE_EC
0x00040FFF:0x00040000 4 k 0x1000
- Error Collator

- Display Controller
- Table 7.102 Display User Registers
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- NV_UDISP_PRIVATE
0x0006FFFF:0x0006 64 K Assembly and Armed state cache for all private channels. (Name is confusing) 16 K: Precalc 1 K per WinPvt 1 K per WrbkPvt 1 K for Core Variables 1 K for Local variables
- NV_UDISP_CORE
0x0007FFFF:0x0007 64 K Assembly and Armed state for the core channel.
- NV_UDISP_REMAP
0x000EFFFF:0x0008 448 K (7 64 K pages)
- This is the full size of the remappable area. It should be aligned
to a 256 KB boundary to make address decode and remapping easier.
- The non-remapped default order of channels already extends
into the 0xC0000 range, so we need at least five 64 K pages
- NV_UDISP_WIN0_ASY
0x000807FF:0x0008 2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT, GET, and
immediate methods) for each Window channel are mapped to a single 4K page.
- NV_UDISP_WIN0_ARM
0x00080FFF:0x0008 2 K (repeat 31 times for each window)
- NV_UDISP_WINIM0_AS
Y 0x000A07FF:0x000
- A0000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT and GET)
for each Window Immediate channel are mapped to a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_WINIM0_AR
M 0x000A0FFF:0x000
- A0800
2 K (repeat 31 times for each window)
- NV_UDISP_WRBK0_AS
Y 0x000C07FF:0x000
- C0000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state caches (including PUT and GET)
for each Writeback channel are mapped to a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_WRBK0_AR
M 0x000C0FFF:0x000
- C0800
2 K (repeat 7 times for each writeback channel)
- NV_UDISP_CURS0_AS
Y 0x000C87FF:0x000
- C8000
2 K
- The assembly and armed state for each cursor PIO channel is
mapped into a single 4 K page.
- NV_UDISP_CURS0_AR
M 0x000C8FFF:0x000
- C8800
2 K (repeat 7 times for each cursor channel)
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
- Reserved
0x000DFFFF:0x000
- D0000
64 K
- Unused

- Display Controller
- Name
- Byte Address
- Size
- Description
- SF UDISP
0x000EFFFF:0x000E 64 K
- This range is mapped directly to user space so that DD can
control DisplayPort and HDMI Info frames.
- Only about 8 K of the range is used, but likely the whole page
needs to be reserved so it can be mapped cleanly to user space.
#### 7.5.1.5 Modes of Operation
##### 7.5.1.5.1 Valid Operating Modes
Internally, the Display pipeline operates in one of three modes: Sleep: Display is idle and is not fetching any pixels or sending data to the Output Resource
- Snooze: The RG is actively generating a blank frame, but no pixels are being fetched from
memory. LoadV is still generated every frame. Awake: Display is sending frames to the connected output resource. There are three main controls, which affect the operating mode of Display: OR Ownership: If the head does not own an OR, it is asleep. As long as the head owns an OR, it is Awake or in Snooze.
- Window Ownership: If the head is not asleep and owns at least one window, the head
is Awake. If the head is not asleep and does not own any windows, the head is in Snooze mode.
- Core.Head.RunMode: This method controls if display operates in continuous or OneShot
mode. In Continuous mode, frames are generated automatically if the head is not asleep. In OneShot mode, frames are only generated one at a time as dictated by software. A summary of the possible combinations is listed in the following table.
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- NO
--- ----
- Head ASLEEP, No pixels fetched
- YES
- Continuous
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates
black frames.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline.
- YES
- Continuous
- YES
Head AWAKE.
- Pixels are being fetched and
processed continuously.

- Display Controller
- At least one OR owned
by the head
- Display Run Mode
- At least one Window
owned by the head
- Mode
- YES
- OneShot1
- NO
- Head in SNOOZE mode
- No pixels fetched. RG generates a
single black frame and then stall at the end of vertical front porch.
- LoadV still generated each frame
but only passed to the cursor pipeline. Software controls gate LoadV.
- YES
- OneShot1
- YES
- Head AWAKE
- Display fetches and scans out a
single frame in response to each trigger event.
- RG stalls at the end of the vertical
front porch and send Vblank pixels to the OR. (1) Assumes that Stall Lock is also enabled. Note: In the table above, owning a window does not require the window to be enabled. If all windows owned by a head are disabled and the Head owns an OR, the head is still awake. The compositor generates the Default Desktop Color for the active raster. A head with DSC enabled in Snooze mode does not output a black frame. The output may be a gray frame, the DisplayPort Idle pattern, or the HDMI FRL Gap pattern.
##### 7.5.1.5.2 OneShot mode
“OneShot mode” is the generic name for the Display state where frames are not generated automatically. Software manually releases each frame and the RG extends vblank until the next frame is released.
- Two parameters control OneShot mode: 1) How the raster is stalled and 2) how the LoadV is
stalled. These controls are separate to give software the flexibility to tailor the mode to their needs.
- Raster Stalling
The Core.Head.SetStalllock method controls the raster stalling. Raster stalling can be enabled without LoadV blocking if desired.
- Field
- Description
- Enable
- Enables the stall lock feature
- Mode
- CONTINUOUS: The RG only stalls once and then switches to continuous scanout
mode. This is typically used for exiting one-shot mode. ONE_SHOT: The RG stalls every frame.

- Display Controller
- Field
- Description
- LockPin
- This defines whether an external lockpin is going to be used for the unstall
event. If no lockpin is defined, the RG automatically unstalls when a LoadV is received.
- The LoadV indicates that a frame has been released upstream and pixels follow
soon.
- If a lockpin is defined, the RG unstalls on the first lockpin edge after a LoadV
arrives.
- UnstallMode
While stalled, RG continuously repeats the last line of the vertical front porch. This is done to maintain lock with the panel.
- Upon an unstall, this mode selects whether RG finishes the current repeated line
before unstalling or whether it jumps immediately to the start of VSYNC.
- TEPolarity
- Controls whether the external unstall signal is falling edge triggered or rising
edge triggered. (unsupported) After an unstall event, RG waits for NV_PDISP_RG_UNSTALL_SPOOLUP pixel clocks before starting the next frame. Then, Display time can complete spool up before scanout begins.
- LoadV Stalling
In order to block the generation of new frames, LoadV is stalled. Specifically, Early LoadV is stalled. There are two mechanisms by which this can be accomplished: Using methods and using private registers. When Core.Head.SetDisplayRate is set to OneShot, Display only releases one LoadV at a time. Software must push an Update method with the ReleaseElv flag set in order to release a LoadV for another frame. The ReleaseElv flag can be set on any channel associated with that head. Setting ReleaseElv on a Core Update releases an ELV on all active OneShot heads.
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK can also be used to block LoadV. The trigger
- NV_PDISP_FE_ELV_BLOCK_ALLOW_ONE_ELV is used to release a LoadV when this blocking
mechanism is used. When either of the LoadV blocking mechanisms are in place, RG Stall must be enabled in order to avoid underflows in the RG.
##### 7.5.1.5.3 Passthrough Mode
All display submodules, which perform any pixel processing must support a passthrough mode, which bypasses all logic that could potentially change the value of a pixel. This includes features like scaling, composition, CSC, and the LUTs (which are also used for FP16 conversion). ISO Hub does not perform any pixel processing so it remains unaffected. The purpose for this mode is to let Display pass an 8 bpc, 10 bpc, or 12 bpc RGB surface directly from the input to the output for software-implemented color formats. G-SYNC panels have a mode, which can update the firmware based on transmitted pixel values, so being able to pass data

- Display Controller
unchanged is important. (Passthrough for 12 bpc content requires the use of the A16R16G10B16 input format.)
##### 7.5.1.5.4 Power Gating
Display has a separate PD_disp power domain for all Display logic.
- Full Display Power Gating
All of Display can be power gated if Display is floorswept or otherwise unused. Power Gating clamps are added on all external interfaces to the display modules. Only display logic must be present in the display partitions so that they can be power gated. If Display is dynamically power gated, software must reinitialize Display on power up. This is the same procedure as boot. There is no context save and restore hardware.
- Asserting Display Reset
1. All display clocks must be running so that reset can propagate: a. b. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l. m. n. o. 2. Shut down all heads, which put all heads in the SLEEP state. a. b. Set Core.Sor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.DSI.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Set Core.Wbor.SetControl.OwnerMask to NONE. Core Update. Wait for Core Update to complete. (It may be necessary to use the accelerator bits in NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn> to force a channel to make progress if it is stuck.) c. d. e. f.

- Display Controller
3.
- If you cannot shut down a certain head or SOR even with the accelerators; force those
resources to use safe clock. This step must only be done if the previous step did not shut down one of the heads. a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_RG_FORCE_SAFE = _ENABLE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SF_SAFE_CTRL = _SAFE
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SOR_MODE_BYPASS = _DP_SAFE
c. 4. Deallocate all Display channels: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DISCONNECT
- NV_PDISP_FE_CHNCTL_<chn>_ALLOCATION = _DEALLOCATE
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_STATE = _DEALLOC
- Poll for NV_PDISP_FE_CHNSTATUS_<chn>_WRITE_PENDING = _NO
c. d. 5. Clear HDA Presence Detect: a. b.
- NV_HDACODEC_AUDIO_HDA_PRESENCE_PW*_PD = NOT_PRESENT
- This step should be done whenever Display resets independently of HDA (e.g. if FN0 resets
but FN1 does not). 6. Clear all interrupts: a. Write 0xFFFFFFFF to all NV_PDISP_FE_EVT_STAT* registers. 7. Hot reset the Display DBB interface to flush out any pending transactions: a. b.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _ENABLE
- Poll for MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_STATUS_1_0_NVDISPLAY_HOTRESET_STATUS ==
- FLUSH_DONE
8. Fence CBB and DBB: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRDWN
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRDWN. 9. Apply output clamps: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = ON
Delay at least 100 ns to ensure that clamps are engaged. 10. Assert reset: a. The following resets should be asserted: i.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_CO
- RE_RST
ii. 11. 12. After reset is asserted, the clocks branches mentioned in Step 1 can be stopped.
- Before continuing to gate power, ensure that there has been at least 3.7 µs since the last
ungating event. SRAM Sleep and power gating enable. 13. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = ON

- Display Controller
ii.
- SRAM_SLEEP = ON
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == ON
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii.
- De-asserting Display Reset
1. 2. Wait until at least 3.7 µs have passed after the last entry into the power gating state. Disable SRAM Sleep and logic sleep power gating. a. Write PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 with the following settings: i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP = OFF
- SRAM_RET = OFF
- INTER_PART_DELAY_EN = ENABLE
- START = 1
ii. iii. iv. v. b. Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_CONTROL_0 until START == 0. Read PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_POWER_GATE_STATUS_0 to ensure the correct state: c. i.
- LOGIC_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_SLEEP_STS == OFF
- SRAM_RET_STS == OFF
ii. iii. 3. The following clocks must be running for 2 µs before de-asserting reset. a. These clocks will be forcibly enabled when the system reset is asserted. If Display is reset independently of the rest of the chip, then software needs to enable these clocks manually. rg*_pclk sf*_clk sor*_clk axi2apb_clk, dbb_disp_clk dispclk clk_2disp_hda_bclk (aza_bitclk) dsc_clk hubclk dsi_core_clk dsi_rx_clk dsi_pixel_clk b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i. j. k. l.

- Display Controller
m. dsi_lp_clk link*_afifo_clk link*_fast_clk xtal n. o. p. 4. If necessary, re-assert the reset signal as described in Step 10 above. a. Some APIs that enable clocks automatically de-assert reset. 5. 6. Wait 2 µs for reset to propagate. Disable output clamps: a.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_CLAMP_CONTROL_0_CLAMP = OFF
7. De-assert reset: a. b.
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_RST
- NVDISPLAY0..CLK_RST_CONTROLLER_RST_DEV_NVDISPLAY_0.SWR_NVDISPLAY_DSI_COR
E_RST 8. Unfence CBB/DBB/Host Controller: a. b.
- PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_CONTROL_0_PWRDWN = PWRUP
- Poll PMC_IMPL_PART_DISP_PWRDWN_REQ_STATUS_0 until H1X_ACK, DBB_ACK, and
CBB_ACK report PWRUP. 9. Take DBB out of flush mode: a.
- MC_CLIENT_HOTRESET_CTRL_1_0_NVDISPLAY_FLUSH_ENABLE = _DISABLE
10. Initialize display RAMs: a. b.
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_PUSHBUF -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_FE_RAM_INIT_STATE_CACHE -->TRIGGER
- NV_PDISP_PRECOMP_WIN_RAM_INIT(*)_SCALER_RTR -->TRIGGER
- Poll for the trigger bits to clear before continuing
c. d. 11. KFUSE read: a.
- NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_CTRL_FUSE_VALID -->YES to trigger Display to start reading the
- KFUSE
- Optional: Poll for NV_PDISP_HDCPRIF_STATUS_KEY_READY == _YES
b.
- Impact on Power Gating to Clocks
Unused PLLs should be placed in IDDQ mode by software to save power.
### 7.5.2 Functional Description
The functionality of the Display Controller is described in the following sections based on its functional partition for pixel processing, Front End (FE), Isochronous Memory Hub (ISO Hub),
- Precomposition (Precomp), Composition (Comp), Post-composition (Post-comp), and Raster
Generation (RG).

- Display Controller
#### 7.5.2.1 Front End Host Interface
The Display Front End receives control instructions for pixel processing from the Host Controller by managing the following: host interface registers interrupts
- LoadV
startFetch, pushbuffers state cache error checks precalc No pixel processing is performed in the FE. The Display Front End is partitioned into five major subunits.
- Method Fetch (MF)
- Method Processor (MP)
- State Manager (SM)
- Real Time (RT)
- Arbitration Layer (AL)
##### 7.5.2.1.1 Isochronous Memory Hub (ISO Hub)
The ISO Hub is the combined interface between the ISO read path and the rest of the Display pipeline. Requests made on the display read path have a higher priority because display requires isochronous data. The purpose of the ISO Hub is to generate all of the read requests to FB for all display fetch surfaces. It must arbitrate the requests in such a way as to prevent underflows on any head. The ISO Hub contains a large shared memory pool to buffer read return data. This is used to avoid refetching of pixels for block-linear surfaces, absorbs some amount of FB latency variation, and other long latency events like DVFS. The ISO Hub does not change the values of any pixel. It needs to perform some reordering of the data (including rotation) so that the pixels can be fed into the precomp pipe in the correct order.
##### 7.5.2.1.2 Pre-Composition Pipe (Precomp)
- The Precomp pipe performs all pixel processing that must be done before composition. The
Precomp formats pixels to the internal pipe color format, apply the input LUT, tone mapping, and several 3 x 4 matrix transformations, and perform scaling. A precomp pipe is tied to a specific

- Display Controller
- Window channel and is mostly controlled through that channel. Each precomp pipe operates
independently of the other pipelines.
**Figure 7.54 Pre-Composition Pipe**
##### 7.5.2.1.3 Composition and Crossbar
The compositor takes two input surfaces and produces one composited output surface. There is one compositor at the end of each Precomp pipe. Each of these compositors accepts pixels from the local Precomp pipe and the output of a compositor from another pipeline (or a programmable background color). Pixels are merged using alpha blending or color keying. A full cross-bar exists to

- Display Controller
route pixels from any compositor to any other compositor. The output to the head pipe can come from any compositor. The Cursor Compositor is located in the head’s pipeline after the XBAR. The cursor is always composited on top of all windows. While each window and cursor contains a single compositor, the collection of all compositors and the Crossbar is often referred to as “comp”.
**Figure 7.55 Composition Pipe**
##### 7.5.2.1.4 Post-Composition Pipe
The Post-comp pipe contains all stages of pixel processing between the Compositor XBAR and the Raster Generator. This includes the output LUT, output scaler, dither, DSC, and the output color- space converter. There is one Post-comp pipe per head controlled by the Core Channel.

- Display Controller
**Figure 7.56 Post-Comp Pipe**
- PCIS: Input Stage. Handles interface with compositor and VGA
- OCSC0: 3 x 4 CSC matrix. Can be used for Hue/Sat adjustment or conversion from RGB to LMS
- OLUT: Output LUT. Applies the appropriate OETF/gamma for the panel
- OCSC1: 3 x 4 CSC matrix. Used to convert to the final output color space
- SCLR: Post-composition Scaler (Post-comp does not include a scaler)
HCLPF: Horizontal Chroma Low Pass Filter. Performs filtering on the chroma component when the output is 4:2:2 or 4:2:0 VFILTER: Vertical Chroma Low Pass Filter. Performs filtering on the chroma component when the output is 4:2:0
- DTH: Dither from pipeline color depth to the panel’s color depth
OSCAN: Overscan. Adds border pixels with the output Viewport is smaller than the active region
- PCOS: post-comp Output Stage. Includes Regional CRC, 4:2:0 packer, and output clamping
DSC: Display Stream Compression (not shown). Compresses the final pixel stream. This occurs between Post-comp and RG.
##### 7.5.2.1.5 Raster Generator (RG)
The raster generator adds blanking, syncs, and other timing information to the raw pixels from the
- Post-comp pipe. The raster generator must generate one pixel per pixel clock to the output
resources. The raster generator is also responsible for performing raster lock and some protocol- specific formatting.

- Display Controller
For the 2head1Or feature, two RGs are ganged together to generate a single output stream to the SF and SOR. The RG pairing is fixed: RG1 can pass pixels to RG0.
**Figure 7.57 Raster Generation Pipe**
RGEN: Raster Generator. All of the raster timing (blanks, syncs) are applied here. Responsible for raster lock. For 2head1Or, RGEN for head0 can accept pixels from head1's RG. PRU: Pixel Reorder Unit. When driving Dual-MST or Dual SST, this reorders the pixels so that the left-half pixels are sent to one stream and the right-half pixels are sent to another stream. ORIF: Output Resource Interface. Output resource-specific formatting. CRC: Calculates RG CRC.
##### 7.5.2.1.6 Serial Formatter (SF)
The SF is responsible for half of the DisplayPort link layer protocol and the HDMI protocol encoding. Audio data is inserted into the blanking region at this point in the pipe. The remaining DisplayPort, TMDS, and HDMI FRL formatting are performed in the SOR. The responsibilities are split so that multiple heads can be used to drive a single SOR for DisplayPort Multistream. The SF performs some minor formatting (mainly identifying line type) when the output is DSI.
##### 7.5.2.1.7 Serial Output Resource (SOR)
The SOR performs the remaining pixel encoding for TMDS (HDMI), HDMI FRL, and DisplayPort. HDCP is performed for both HDMI and DisplayPort in the SOR. It produces the final parallel data to the analog macro, which drives signals to the panel. The SOR is also responsible for panel power sequencing and all associated SOR macro control signals.
##### 7.5.2.1.8 DSI
The DSI acts as an output resource similar to the SOR. It accepts pixel data from the SF and performs the encoding necessary to send the data over a DSI CPHY or DPHY link. It produces the final parallel data to be sent to the analog macro.

- Display Controller
##### 7.5.2.1.9 Display SEC
DISP_SEC is a centralized module that oversees the security of many of Display’s subunits.
- DISP_SEC manages VPR policy, secure keys, upstream reporting, and the Secure Bus. Some
subunits report a panic condition to DISP_SEC when they detect a condition that may potentially leak protected content. DISP_SEC can instruct the pipeline to blank the output data when this occurs.
##### 7.5.2.1.10 CRC Collection
This mechanism is used by NVIDIA to verify display hardware functionality in testing, by comparing per-frame CRCs between RTL and a model. This is separate from, and different to, the regional CRC mechanism used for functional safety checks. CRCs are collected in the RG, Compositor, and ORs. FE reads the subunits’ CRCs over the bundle bus after they assert crc_valid. The results are written to a notifier structure in memory. The test infrastructure reads the notifier and writes out a test.crc file. This is compared against the golden CRC file.
- CRC Register Interface
All units, which calculate CRCs should expose these common register fields:
- Table 7.103 CRCA Register Fields
- Field
- Size (bits)
- Description
- VALID
- Reports whether the current CRC is valid. Cleared when
CRCB is read.
- ERROR
A new CRC was generated while Valid was still high from the previous CRC. A CRC value was lost. This bit is cleared upon reading CRCA.
- VPR_STATUS
- Indicate whether the CRC in CRCB register was derived
from at least one VPR pixel.
- Table 7.104 CRCB Register Fields
- Field
- Size (bits)
- Description
- CRC
- Reading the CRC clears the Valid bit in CRCA
- This register is protected using PLM to prevent insecure
software from reading CRCs based on VPR pixels.
- CRC capture begins at LoadV and ends at the end of the frame. Based on the value of
Core.Head.SetControlOutputResource.CrcMode, the CRC engines capture all pixels, only active

- Display Controller
pixels, or only nonactive pixels. In “active only” mode, the CRC calculation ends at lasth&&lastv. In the other modes, CRC calculation ends at LoadV (including the LoadV pixel for units after the RG).
- In OneShot mode, only the “active only” mode is permitted because the vblank period is of
unpredictable size in this mode. CRCs registers can only be read with private level 3 to protect VPR information.
- CRC Sequence of Events
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Software defines a valid context DMA for the CRC notifier in SetContextDmaCrc. At the start of the next frame, Comp, RG, and the ORs start calculating CRCs. When CRCs are ready (after LoadV), the subunits assert crc_valid to FE. FE reads CRCB and stores the value. FE reads CRCA to determine if there was any error.
- Once Comp, RG, and the OR CRCs are collected for a given frame, FE writes the entry to the
CRC notifier. Repeat from step 2 until the CRC notifier ContextDMA is changed. 7.
- Error Conditions
If a subunit calculates a new CRC while the valid bit is still set for the previous CRC, it should set the CRCA_ERROR bit and not update the CRC value in CRCB. If FE sees that the ERROR bit is set when reading CRCA, it should log the error and stop collecting CRCs. Since the number of CRCs collected from each subunit may not match, the CRC collection could potentially hang if it tries to continue from this point.
##### 7.5.2.1.11 VPR
The Video Protected Region is a section of memory, which can be protected against reads or writes from various clients. When Display reads data from a VPR region, it must ensure that the data (including CRCs based on the pixel data) is never leaked to an insecure output.
#### 7.5.2.2 Clocks
- Table 7.105 Clock Summary
- Source
- Usage
- Clock Name
- Maximum
frequency (MHz)
- Interface clocks
sysclk_noeg
- SYSPLL
- ISO Interface, NISO Interface
axi2abp_clk
- Used for the register interface
dbb_disp_clk
- Used for the ISO and NISO interfaces

- Display Controller
- Source
- Usage
- Clock Name
- Maximum
frequency (MHz)
- Jtag_reg_clk
jtag_tck
- SOR IOBIST
- Pipeline clocks
dispclk
- SPPLL, DISPPLL
- Main clock for FE, precomp, comp, post-comp. The end of the
ISO Hub output pipeline uses dispclk. Input of RG is on dispclk. dsc_clk dispclk/3
- The DSC logic operates at three pixels per clock, so a clock that
is 1/3rd the rest of the pipeline is required. hubclk 385.7
- DISPHUBPLL,
- SPLL
- Main ISO Hub clock
rg*_pclk
- VPLL, xtal, PLLD
Pixel clock for the RGs. One per head.
- SOR clocks
sf*_clk sor*_clk, xtal,
- PLLD
Serial Formatter clock.
- For DisplayPort and HDMI, this uses the clock of the SOR that
the SF is attached to. For DSI, this uses pclk of the head. sor*_clk xtal, VPLLs, macro feedback clocks
- SOR clock. This is typically 1/10th of the link frequency. Link pad
macro generates this. For HDMI FRL, it is 1/12th the link frequency. sor*_ifp*_clk
- Macro feedback
clocks
- Used for one side of the SOR Async FIFOs connecting the SOR
core logic to the “fast” clocks near the macro. Runs at 1/20th the link frequency. link*_fast_clk
- Macro feedback
clocks
- Used in the “split” modules, which implement the SOR Link XBAR
muxing. link*_macro_cl k
- Macro feedback
clocks
- Connected to the SLOWCLK port of the Link pad macros. Should
be identical to link*_clk_fast.
- SOR macro
pclk reference
- Sor_pll_ref_clk
- VPLLs
The pixel clock reference source for the Link pad macros. Connects to the PCLK port.
- SOR macro
- DisplayPort
reference
- SPPLL0, SPPLL1
- The DisplayPort and HDMI FRL reference clock for the Link pad
macros. Connects to the DCLK ports. May be downspread for DisplayPort.
- DSI clocks
dsi_core_clk
- DSI PHY
- DSI core logic. Typically runs at I/O clk divided by 8 or 7
dsi_pixel_clk
- DSI PHY, VPLL,
- PLLD
Matches the pixel clock of the head. dsi_io_clk
- PLLD
- High-speed I/O clock of DSI pad
- Audio clocks

- Display Controller
- Source
- Usage
- Clock Name
- Maximum
frequency (MHz) aza_bitclk
- SPPLL0
- Main clock for the HDA codec logic and some of the AZA
controller logic. aza_2xbitclk
- SPPLL0
- Used in AZA controller
maudclk
- SPPLL0
- Used during the MAUD calculation in the HDA codec. A fast
enough clock is needed to drive DDA counters to emulate the 512*fs clock.
- Other
xtal 38.4
- Crystal reference
clock
- Used by FE to generate microsecond and millisecond reference
pulses for use within Display and PMGR. Display gates clocks to submodules, which are idle. Top-level clock enables are controlled in NV Clocks. Software must ensure that dispclk, hubclk, rg_pclk, sf_clk, sor_clk, and dsi_core_clk are enabled before programming display. The bundle bus requires some clock in order to pass bundles. Safe-clk (xtal) is fine for this purpose, but a higher clock may be desired to reduce programming time. Software must also ensure that all Display clocks are running when Display Reset is asserted. This requirement is new to NVD4.0 due to the transition to a sync-reset architecture.
##### 7.5.2.2.1 Dispclk and Hubclk Source Switching
The dispclk, hubclk, or both may need to change when there is a change to the display bandwidth requirement. The change in bandwidth could be due to the addition/removal of a new display or changing the configuration of current display (like adding/removing windows, scaling). When dispclk and hubclk are changed while display is active, the pixel flow to raster generator must be uninterrupted. Also, the adequate pixels must stored in various buffers to avoid display from underflowing. This section goes over current dispclk/hubclk policy and buffering requirements when these clocks switch. From the Display perspective, clocks should change dynamically without any dead cycles.
- While the PLLs (DISPPLL and HUBPLL) support this feature (called dynamic ramp), there are
discrete ranges of frequencies where this is possible to change without any dead cycle time. The
- VCO operating limits determine this. When the frequency change crosses from one range to
another different source or a temporary clock source is chosen while the PLL (PDIV) is changed to hit the new frequency range. After the clock is stable, we switch back to DISPPLL/HUBPLL. For every clock source switch, a dead cycle time of five clock cycles of source clock and five clock cycles of destination clock is incurred. Based on the clocking policy, there can be up to two switches per frame. The following is an example of various ranges achieved for PDIV values.
- Table 7.106 DISPPLL Output Ranges
- PDIV
- DISPCLK RANGE
[806.4, 1612.8]

- Display Controller
- PDIV
- DISPCLK RANGE
[403.2, 825.6] [268.8, 550.4]
- With HUBPLL/DISPPLL, if a fractional divider is used with dynamic ramp then the clock may
undershoot by up to 5% for several microseconds before settling to the final frequency. Since hiding such large duration requires significant buffering, there are two options. One is for software always to allocate clocks 5% faster than minimum required and another is only to use a linear divider with a dynamic ramp. Software will go with the latter.
##### 7.5.2.2.2 Hubclk
Clocking architecture does permit flexibility to use HUBPLL or a divided version of SPPLL. For the use cases of interest, we feel the level of granularity we get by generating from SPPLL is good enough and also helps save HUBPLL power. The current software policy is to have hubclk always derived from SPPLL by changing the PDIV. SPPLL is an always-running PLL at 2,700 MHz and for hubclk we would be using PDIV in [7,63]. As per PLL designers, whenever we change the PDIV value in [3,63] there will not be any dead cycles. Therefore, additional buffering due to hubclk changes will not occur.
**Figure 7.58 hubclk tree**
##### 7.5.2.2.3 Dispclk
- Similar to HUBCLK, SPPLL or DISPPLL can drive DISPCLK. Unlike hubclk, we cannot always
generate dispclk from SPPLL for frequencies of interest. In order to simplify software programming in NVIDIA Ampere Architecture, it was decided that if dispclk<=900 then we use SPPLL with a divider (PDIV) and for other cases we will use DISPPLL. Following the same strategy as NVIDIA Ampere Architecture implies that there is clock switch per frequency change. However, for some use cases that require dispclk in the 300 MHz, 500 MHz range, the granularity that we get from SPPPLL is too coarse. It can drive the minimum voltage of the chip higher. In some cases, this was as high as 40 mV.

- Display Controller
To avoid this increase in voltage, one must derive dispclk from DISPPLL. Based on the current and target dispclk frequency and taking into account PLL VCO requirements, this would imply that apart from changing the PLL settings MDIV and NDIV that permits dynamic ramp, the PDIV must be changed as well. If we change PDIV first and then program the DISPPLL, then we may run DISPCLK slower than expected frequency for a period of time (leading to underflow). If we change
- DISPPLL first and then program PDIV, then we may run clock much faster, violating voltage
requirements. To switch the DISPPLL PDIV, the following sequence must be followed: 1. Determine closest SPPLL linear divide frequency that is greater than or equal to the current dispclk frequency. If this frequency requires a higher chip voltage, then raise the voltage. Program the SPPLL divider for dispclk. Switch dispclk to the output of the SPPLL. Program DISPPLL to the required frequency. Switch dispclk to the output of DISPPLL. Reduce the voltage if possible. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. This sequence has two clock switches that will likely occur within a single frame. Display requires buffering to handle the dead cycles introduced by these switches. Software uses the NVIDIA Ampere Architecture approach (use SPPLL for any frequency <= 900 MHz), but has the flexibility of using a more efficient DISPPLL approach at a later point if product requires it. Therefore, the display design has been updated to buffer for two clock switches.
**Figure 7.59 Dispclk tree**
#### 7.5.2.3 Coordinate Systems
To understand the coordinate systems used by display and the associated settings, refer to the following text and diagram. There are three coordinate systems in display: 1. 2.
- Input: used to define regions inside surfaces as they are placed in memory
- Composition (desktop): used to define how windows are composed on the screen/desktop

- Display Controller
3. Output (or raster): for the actual output raster produced The main processing steps that affect how to translate between these coordinate systems are: Scaling: input domain is not scaled. The composition domain is scaled by window scalers.
- Cropping: windows may be partially off screen (as defined in composition domain) which
leads to cropped rectangles defining the visible portion. Those then have to be inverse-scaled to the input domain to find the corresponding source rectangle in the input domain. For window settings, only the input and composition domains are of interest. Since does not have an output scaler, the output domain and composition domain are actually the same. A viewport is a rectangle in desktop coordinate space that defines the portion of the desktop that is visible on a given head. By moving the viewport position, you can pan the head across the entire desktop space. A rectangle in desktop coordinate space defines the window size and position. The portion of the window that intersects with a viewport is visible on the corresponding Head, the rest is off-screen. Note that windows are not relative to viewports. Moving a viewport does not move the windows with it. The diagram shows an active raster (= viewport) in yellow, and a window (blue). The window has a surface associated with it (gray).

- Display Controller
**Figure 7.60 Active Raster**
The contents of the full window can be a rectangular subset of the full surface. The portion of the full window that is inside the viewport and thus visible is called the cropped window. Some relevant window settings are: SetPointIn.X/Y:

- Display Controller
This is the pixel/line offset into the window buffer of the top-left pixel of the full window (before cropping). SetPointIn always defines the top-left corner of the window in the buffer, regardless of scan out direction. Display hardware calculates the address of the corner where fetching must begin. SetSizeIn.Width/Height: This is the size of the full window, cropping and scaling, i.e. the size of the portion of the image buffer that is needed to draw the contents of the full window. SetPointOut.X/Y: This is the position of the full window relative to the desktop origin. If the viewport is placed at (0,0), which is typically done, then this is the same as window position relative to the raster origin. These values can be negative. SetSizeOut.Width/Height: This is the size of the full window in the desktop domain after scaling, but before cropping. For settings related to windows and window scaling, all those with "In" their names are in input domain, and all those with "Out" in their name are in desktop domain. Most of these settings have a corresponding cropped version, which reflects the values associated with the cropped window instead of the full window. These cropped settings are the ones that hardware actually needs.
##### 7.5.2.3.1 Window
A window is a region of the viewport that contains the contents of a surface (or multiple surfaces in the case of planar) from the FB. The window channel controls surface parameters. This includes states such as the buffer offset, input scaler parameters, and color format. Windows can be assigned to any Head. A window channel controls each window. There is one window channel per window supported by the class.
- Window Dimensions
As a general rule, input parameters are defined in the buffer's coordinate space that is relative to the first pixel defined by the window surface context DMA. Output parameters are defined in the composition coordinate space. Note:

- Display Controller Registers
For YUV windows, the fetch rectangle must begin at an even location in the surface and have an even size. This applies to all YUV formats, and both directions, regardless of the actual chroma subsampling. So it even applies to YUV444 surfaces. The final fetch rectangle is derived by the Precalc process. The public settings must be chosen or restricted such that the derived private settings for the fetch rectangle meet these "even" requirements for YUV windows, otherwise display does not operate correctly.
- Window Ownership
The window has an associated ownership state, which can have one of the following permitted values: none
- Head<i>; i=0..H-1
The ownership is a double buffered value. The actual current ownership is the active state value. The new (next) ownership is the assembly state value. Not all transitions are legal. A window ownership can be changed to none, or from none at all times. It can never be changed from Head<i> to Head<k> directly for any valid i and k with i≠k. A change of ownership always has to transition through the 'none' state. The ownership state of a window is part of the window's channel, and as such also falls under the access restrictions for that window (more later). If additional setup is needed related to this change in ownership, for example in ISO Hub shared resource control, such changes have to be made by driver. It must be updated/activated either at the same time or in some appropriate sequence to avoid resource problems during or after the completion of the change.
### 7.5.3 Display Controller Registers
Refer to "Reading Register Tables" in the Introduction chapter for the register table protocol as well as recommendations for accessing registers.
- NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SOR
This register set controls the clock that drives the SORs. The RM loads the registers with the proper required divide factors. FE enables the clocks and selects between SAFE and NORMAL modes. The status of the FE selections is reported below for debug assist. There are two clocks to each SOR: one for the logic, the other for the SOR hi-speed PLL. The hi-speed PLL source is always enabled, and always in NORMAL mode.

- Display Controller Registers
This is an array of 8 identical register entries; the register fields below apply to each entry. Full register list is: NV_PDISP_FE_CMGR_CLK_SOR_<i>, among which <i> belongs to <0..7>.
- Offset: 0x2300,..,0x5b00
- Read/Write: See table below
- Parity Protection: N
- Reset: 0x00X2X0X0 (0bxxxx,xx00,x000,0010,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx,xxxx)
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
25:24
- RW
0x0 CLK_SOURCE:
- The DP_DUAL_TMDS macro has four input clocks. This field selects
which clock is used for the internal logic. When the SOR is operating in
- DP mode, this should be set to one of the _DPCLK settings. When the
- SOR is operating in TMDS mode, this should be set to one of the
_PCLK settings. This field should only be changed when the SOR is asleep or the DP_MODE_BYPASS is set to DP_SAFE. Allow 200 microseconds for the plls in the analog macro to settle after changing this setting. 0 = INIT 0 = SINGLE_PCLK: Single ended pclk from the vpll 1 = DIFF_PCLK: Differential Pclk 2 = SINGLE_DPCLK: Single ended 270 MHz clock 3 = DIFF_DPCLK: Differential 270 MHz clock
- RO
X STATE: Indicates whether FE has ENABLEd or DISABLEd the clock to the SOR.
- Note, this state is independent of the choice of NORMAL or SAFE
clock reported. 0 = DISABLE 1 = ENABLE

- Display Controller Registers
- Bit
R/W
- Reset
- Description
22:18
- RW
0x0 LINK_SPEED:
- Programs the link speed for DP, TMDS, FRL i.e. it selects the multiplier
used by the analog macro PLL. For DP and TMDS, logic in the SOR will receive a version of this clock that is divided by 10. For FRL, logic in the SOR will receive a version of this clock that is divided by 12. This field should only be changed when MODE_BYPASS is set to DP/
- FRL_SAFE or when the SOR is in safe mode. It may take up to 200
microseconds for the PLLs in the analog macro to settle after this setting is changed. Changing this field will require DP/FRL link re- training. 0 = DP_1_62GHZ: Selects the 1.62 GHz link clock; PLL generates 1.62
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 6)
0 = INIT 1 = DP_2_70GHZ: Selects the 2.70 GHz link clock; PLL generates 2.70
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 10)
2 = DP_5_40GHZ: Selects the 5.40 GHz link clock; PLL generates 5.40
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 20)
3 = DP_8_10GHZ: Selects the 8.10 GHz link clock; PLL generates 8.10
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 30)
4 = EDP_2_16GHZ: Selects the 2.16 GHz link clock; PLL generates 2.16
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 8). Can be used only if the eDP panel
reports support for it in the DPCD registers. 5 = EDP_2_43GHZ: Selects the 2.43 GHz link clock; PLL generates 2.43
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 9). Can be used only if the eDP panel
reports support for it in the DPCD registers. 6 = EDP_3_24GHZ: Selects the 3.24 GHz link clock; PLL generates 3.24
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 12). Can be used only if the eDP panel
reports support for it in the DPCD registers. 7 = EDP_4_32GHZ: Selects the 4:32 GHz link clock; PLL generates 4:32
- GHz from 270 MHz (multiplier = 16). Can be used only if the eDP panel
reports support for it in the DPCD registers. 8 = TMDS_0_25_TO_0_85GHZ: Select 0.25G to 0.85G TMDS clock; PLL takes reference clock range from 25 MHz to 85 MHz (multiplier = 10). It covers 250 Mbps to 650 Mbps(ref clock 25~65 MHz. 9 = TMDS_0_50_TO_1_70GHZ: Select 0.5G to 1.7G TMDS clock; PLL takes reference clock range from 50 MHz to 170 MHz (multiplier = 10). It covers 650Mbps to 1650 Mbps (ref clock 65~165 MHz). 10 = TMDS_1_00_TO_3_40GHZ: Select 1G to 3.4G TMDS clock; PLL takes reference clock range from 100 MHz to 340 MHz (multiplier = 10). It covers 1650 Mbps to 3400 Mbps(ref clock 165~340 MHz). 11 = TMDS_3_40_TO_6_00GHZ: Select 3.4 to 6G TMDS clock; PLL takes reference clock range from 150 MHz to 300 MHz. It's for
- HDMI20 high-speed mode(multiplier = 20). It covers 3400 Mbps to
6000 Mbps. 12 = HDMI_FRL_3G: Select the 3G link clock; PLL generates 3 GHz from 100 MHz (multiplier = 30). 13 = HDMI_FRL_6G: Select the 6G link clock; PLL generates 6 GHz from 100 MHz (multiplier = 60). 14 = HDMI_FRL_8G: Select the 8G link clock; PLL generates 8 GHz from 100 MHz (multiplier = 80). 15 = HDMI_FRL_10G: Select the 10G link clock; PLL generates 10 GHz from 100 MHz (multiplier = 100). 16 = HDMI_FRL_12G: Select the 12G link clock; PLL generates 12 GHz from 100 MHz (multiplier = 120). 17 = EDP_6_75GHZ: Selects the 6.75 GHz link clock; PLL generates
